The Project Gutenberg EBook of The 2010 CIA World Factbook, by 
United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The 2010 CIA World Factbook

Author: United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

Release Date: April 11, 2011 [EBook #35830]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE 2010 CIA WORLD FACTBOOK ***




Produced by Al Haines






THE CIA WORLD FACTBOOK 2010




CONTENTS


What's New?

Did You Know?

Guide to Country Profiles

Countries and Locations

Field Listings

Rank Orders

Appendixes

Notes and Definitions

History of the CIA Factbook

Contributors and Copyright Information

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)



======================================================================



THE WORLD FACTBOOK :: WHAT'S NEW



January 31, 2011

What do the initials ESA stand for? Check out Appendix A:
Abbreviations to find out. New space-based photos have been uploaded
for Australia, China, Namibia, Mexico, and the US.



January 25, 2011

What country enjoyed the lowest unemployment rate in 2010? Find out
by checking "Unemployment rate" under the Country Comparison feature
(in the References tab). The entire Economy category has been
updated to reflect data for years 2010 and earlier.



January 14, 2011

Did you know that the highest elevation in the Netherlands is not in
Europe? Where is it? Find out by checking the "Elevation extremes"
field in the Geography section. New space-based photos have been
added for Iran and Russia.



January 07, 2011

What country flag is only one color? To find out visit the Flags of
the World page.



December 30, 2010

What airport handles the most passengers annually? Find out by going
to the World entry, Transportation category, "Airports" field, and
locating the top ten airports by passengers and by cargo.



December 23, 2010

If it's noon in Washington, DC, what time is it in Nairobi, Kenya?
The answer may be found in the Government section, under "Capital,"
where the time difference is specified. New photos from Kenya have
been uploaded.



December 17, 2010

How many rare earth elements (REEs) are there? Find the answer in
the "Definitions and Notes" (below the References tab). These
critical elements, necessary in so many of today's high-tech
industries, are now listed in the "Natural resources" field, under
Geography, for countries that are producing REEs or initializing
mining operations (including Australia, China, Russia, South Africa,
and the US).



December 10, 2010

Quick! What's the national anthem of Australia? Now you can find the
name, lyricist, composer, and additional basic anthem info for every
country in the world by visiting the new "National anthems" field in
the Government section of the Factbook.



November 30, 2010

Since 2004, The World Factbook Web site has been updated on a
bi-weekly schedule. Culminating a three-month trial effort, we are
pleased to announce that the Factbook will now be updated on a
weekly basis.



November 19, 2010

Significant updates entered under the People, Government, and
Communications categories.



November 11, 2010

In the Geography category, a new subfield, "volcanism," has been
added under the "Natural hazards" field for countries with
historically active volcanoes. The Economy section has been updated
to reflect the most recent data for 2009 and earlier years.



November 05, 2010

In the Economy category, the "Oil - exports," "Oil - imports," "Oil
- proved reserves," and "Natural gas - proved reserves" fields have
been updated with the most recent estimates available.



October 29, 2010

In the People category, significant updates have been made to the
"School life expectancy" and "Education expenditures" fields. In the
Economy category, the "Stock of domestic credit" field has been
updated to include data for 2009. In addition, the definition has
been expanded to include credit provided by all financial
institutions, not just banks, as had been The World Factbook
practice until now. For some countries this change significantly
broadens the coverage.



October 22, 2010

The dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles has resulted in two new
World Factbook entries: the autonomous entities of Curacao and Sint
Maarten (the remaining three islands - Bonaire, Saba, and Sint
Eustatius - have joined the Netherlands as special municipalities).
The number of entities in The World Factbook now stands at 267.



October 13, 2010

In the Economy category, the "Stock of money" and "Stock of quasi
money" fields have been updated and renamed as "Stock of narrow
money" and "Stock of broad money" in keeping with the International
Monetary Fund's new presentation of monetary data. This new format
provides greater standardization of reporting and permits more
consistent comparisons across countries. Please see "Definitions and
Notes" (under the References tab) for descriptions of the new fields.



October 08, 2010

In the Communications category, the "Internet hosts" field has been
updated with 2010 data; significant updates entered in the
Geography, Government, and Military categories.



October 01, 2010

In the Transportation category, the "Merchant marine" field has been
updated with the latest available data; substantial updates also
entered in fields of the Government and Economy categories.



September 24, 2010

In the Economy category, new data have been added for 2009 in the
fields for "Central bank discount rate" and "Commercial bank prime
lending rate."



September 17, 2010

In the Transportation category, the "Roadways" field has been
updated with the latest available data; significant updates also
entered in fields of the Government and Military categories.



September 13, 2010

In the Government category, the amplification of flag descriptions -
to include explanations of colors and symbols - has been completed
for all of the country entries.



September 03, 2010

In addition to various population, governmental, and military
updates, new photos have been added for Burma, Canada, Poland, the
United Kingdom, and the United States.



August 23, 2010

In the Communications category, the former "Radio broadcast
stations" and "Television broadcast stations" entries have been
replaced by a new "Broadcast media" field that provides information
on the approximate number of public and private TV and radio
stations in a country, as well as basic information on the
availability of satellite and cable TV services. Malawi's recently
unveiled new flag may be viewed either in the Flags of the World
link or under the Malawi country entry. In the Economy category, GDP
statistics have been updated and revised.



August 06, 2010

In the Transportation category, the "Airports," "Airports - with
paved runways," "Airports with unpaved runways," and "Heliports"
fields have all been updated with the latest available data.



July 29, 2010

The "International Court of Justice (ICJ)" entry listed under
International Organizations and Groups in Appendix B has been
expanded considerably and now includes countries adherent to
jurisdiction. Several fields in the Economy category covering trade
as well as oil and natural gas have been updated with the latest
available annual data.



July 23, 2010

Under the References tab, in the Definitions and Notes, the entry
for "Legal system" has been significantly expanded; it now includes
descriptions, origins, and features of the most common legal systems.



July 01, 2010

Many fields in the Economy category have been updated with the
latest available annual data, including "Labor force," "Unemployment
rate," "Budget - revenues and expenditures," "Public debt,"
"Inflation rate," "Current account balance," "Exports," "Imports,"
"Reserves of foreign exchange," and "Direct foreign investment."



June 18, 2010

The fields in the Economy category for "Stock of money," "Stock of
quasi-money," "and "Market value of publicly traded shares" have
been updated with the latest available data.



June 04, 2010

Significant updates entered under the Government, Economy, and
Military categories. The Country Comparisons function now also
appears in the 'World' entry to allow users to quickly view how
countries rank in 58 different Factbook fields.



May 21, 2010

Dozens of new photos uploaded for Central and Eastern European
countries, most notably Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Latvia,
Poland, and Russia.



May 07, 2010

Major updates made to fields in the People, Government, and Military
categories. New photos appear under China, Romania, and Ukraine.



April 23, 2010

The 'World' entry continues to accrue "top ten" rankings; recent
additions in the Geography category include the world's ten highest
mountains and largest islands. The Transportation category lists the
top ten airports (both by passengers and cargo) and container ports,
as well as the ten longest rivers.



April 09, 2010

The ongoing expansion of flag descriptions - to also include
explanations of colors and symbols - is now complete for over
two-thirds of the Factbook entries.



March 26, 2010

The fields in the Economy category have been updated with the latest
available data. New photos introduced for the World, the Holy See
(Vatican City), and the Philippines.



March 05, 2010

In the Government category, a link to the World Leaders website
under the "Executive branch: cabinet" entry allows users to find a
listing of a country's major officials.



February 19, 2010

Significant updates introduced in the Government, Communications,
and Transportation categories. New photos appear under France and
Germany.



January 26, 2010

In the Economy category, information has been updated and now covers
the year 2009. New photos added for Egypt and Italy.



January 08, 2010

The introductory Background statements have been updated or revised
for dozens of countries. New images introduced for Argentina, China,
the Czech Republic, South Africa, Svalbard, and Turkey.



December 04, 2009

In addition to various governmental and military updates, new photos
have been introduced for Germany, Greenland, Italy, Malaysia,
Maldives, and the United Kingdom.



November 13, 2009

Recent elections and governmental changes recorded for Afghanistan,
Aruba, Fiji, Germany, Haiti, Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Tunisia,
and Uruguay. In the Economy category, some 20 macro-economic fields
have been updated with the latest data. New NASA space photos added
for the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans, as well as for
Montserrat and the World; new ground photos added for Cambodia,
France, and Luxembourg.



October 30, 2009

In the Economy category, all the energy-related fields have been
updated with the latest data; new photos added for Norway and Poland.



October 14, 2009

In addition to regular informational updates, new photos have been
added for Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Russia, and Sweden.



October 02, 2009

In the Transportation category, updates have been made to the
"Airports" and "Heliports" fields; new photos added for Libya,
Turkey, and the United Kingdom.



September 17, 2009

NASA images taken from space have been introduced to enhance various
country photo presentations. Significant numbers of high altitude
photos appear under China, Egypt, Spain, Australia, and New Zealand,
but can also be found scattered among other country entries. In the
Economy category, statistics for "Distribution of family income -
Gini index," "Public debt," and "Debt - external" now include two
year's worth of data.



September 03, 2009

In the Economy category, statistics for "Current Account Balance,"
"Exports," "Imports," "Reserves of foreign exchange and gold,"
"Stock of direct foreign investment - at home," and "Stock of direct
foreign investment - abroad" now include two year's worth of data;
statistics for "Market value of publicly traded shares" now include
three year's worth of data. New photos added for Austria, France,
Monaco, Netherlands, and Netherlands Antilles.



August 17, 2009

Various rail gauge line lengths have been updated for all countries
in the Railways entry; selected economic and political entries also
updated.



July 31, 2009

In the Economy category, statistics for "Central bank discount
rate," "Commercial bank prime lending rate," "Stock of money,"
"Stock of quasi money," and "Stock of domestic credit" now include
two year's worth of data.



July 20, 2009

Latest updates include changes to the chief of state or head of
government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Lithuania, and
Panama. New photographs have been added for Spain, Portugal,
Gibraltar, and South Africa.



July 01, 2009

With the launch of the new Web site, the former "Rank Order"
function was renamed "Country Comparisons." The link to Country
Comparisons may be found under the References tab. In addition, many
of the regional reference maps now incorporate both elevation and
vegetation on landmasses, and bathymetry for ocean areas. Statistics
for "Unemployment rate" and "Inflation rate (consumer prices)" now
include two year's worth of data.



June 08, 2009

Completely redesigned website - presenting a cleaner look, improved
navigation, and a host of added features - launched on the World
Wide Web. Among the major enhancements are downloadable and
printable photos for nearly 100 countries, a "Did You Know?" section
explaining the impact of the Factbook around the world, and built-in
world rankings for many of the Factbook information fields.
Government sections reflect the results of recent parliamentary
elections in Kuwait - where women were elected for the first time -
and India, as well as presidential elections in Lithuania, Mongolia,
Panama, and South Africa.



April 27, 2009

Significant updates made to the People and Economy categories;
statistics for "GDP - real growth rate" and "GDP - per capita" (at
purchasing power parity) now include three year's worth of data, in
2008 dollars. The Urbanization entry under People expanded to
include all countries.



April 03, 2009

In addition to regular country updates, statistics for "GDP
(purchasing power parity)" now include three year's worth of data,
in 2008 dollars.



March 20, 2009

Recent major leadership changes in Guinea-Bissau, Latvia, and
Madagascar included in the Government sections of those countries.



March 02, 2009

Latest US Census Bureau figures - updating basic demographic data
for all countries - entered into the database. Entries on religions,
languages, ethnic groups, and literacy also updated.



February 06, 2009

Country information updated across all categories. Economic data now
includes 2008 estimates where available.



November 05, 2008

In order to provide more information on the nature and global
dimensions of the current financial crisis, five additional fields
appended to the Economy category: "Central bank discount rate,"
"Commercial bank prime lending rate," "Stock of money," "Stock of
quasi money," and "Stock of domestic credit."



August 06, 2008

In the People category, two new fields provide information on
education in terms of opportunity and resources: "School Life
Expectancy" and "Education expenditures."



November 06, 2007

In the Geography category, two new fields focus on the vital
resource of water: "Total renewable water resources" and "Freshwater
withdrawal."



October 31, 2007

Three new fields added to the Economy category: "Stock of direct
foreign investment - abroad," "Stock of direct foreign investment -
at home," "Market value of publicly traded shares."



Ongoing

Revision of some individual country maps, first introduced in the
2001 edition, continues. Several regional maps have been updated to
reflect boundary changes and place name spelling changes.



======================================================================



About :: DID YOU KNOW?



The World Factbook is one of the US Government's most accessed
publications.

The World Factbook, produced for US policymakers and coordinated
throughout the US Intelligence Community, presents the basic
realities about the world in which we live. We share these facts
with the people of all nations in the belief that knowledge of the
truth underpins the functioning of free societies.


Who uses The World Factbook?

A wide variety of folks including US Government officials,
researchers, news organizations, corporations, geographers,
teachers, professors, librarians, and students. In short, anyone
looking for an expansive body of international data on a recently
updated Web site.


The World Factbook is a one-stop reference site.

Although many of the facts presented in The Factbook may be found in
various other publications, they are conveniently gathered together
in one place only at The World Factbook Web site.


The World Factbook is a unique reference in that it is updated
continuously - on average, every week.

Information in The Factbook is collected from - and coordinated with
- a wide variety of US Government agencies, as well as from hundreds
of published sources.



======================================================================



References :: Guide to Country Profiles



These are the Categories, Fields, and subfields of information
generally recorded for each country. Links are to the Definitions
and Notes about each entry.






Introduction ::



Background:









Geography ::



Location:

Geographic coordinates:

Map references:

Area:

total

land

water

Area - comparative:

Land boundaries:

total

border countries

Coastline:

Maritime claims:

territorial sea

contiguous zone

exclusive economic zone

continental shelf

exclusive fishing zone

Climate:

Terrain:

Elevation extremes:

lowest point

highest point

Natural resources:

Land use:

arable land

permanent crops

other

Irrigated land:

Total Renewable Water Resources:

Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total

per capita

Natural hazards:

volcanism

Environment - current issues:

Environment - international agreements:

party to

signed, but not ratified

Geography - note:









People ::



Population:

Age structure:

0-14 years

15-64 years

65 years and over

Median Age:

total

male

female

Population growth rate:

Birth rate:

Death rate:

Net migration rate:

Sex ratio:

at birth

under 15 years

15-64 years

65 years and over

total population

Infant mortality rate:

total

male

female

Life expectancy at birth:

total population

male

female

Total fertility rate:

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

HIV/AIDS - deaths:

Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk

food or waterborne diseases

vectorborne diseases

water contact diseases

aerosolized dust or soil contact disease

respiratory disease

animal contact disease

Nationality:

noun

adjective

Ethnic groups:

Religions:

Languages:

Literacy:

definition

total population

male

female

School life expectancy (primary to tertiary):

Education expenditures:

People - note:









Government ::



Country name:

conventional long form

conventional short form

local long form

local short form

former

abbreviation

Dependency status:

Government type:

Capital:

name

geographic coordinates

time difference

daylight saving time

Administrative divisions:

Dependent areas:

Independence:

National holiday:

Constitution:

Legal system:

Suffrage:

Executive branch:

chief of state

head of government

cabinet

elections

election results

Legislative branch:

elections

election results

Judicial branch:

Political parties and leaders:

Political pressure groups and leaders:

International organization participation:

Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission

chancery

telephone

FAX

consulate(s) general

consulate(s)

Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission

embassy

mailing address

telephone

FAX

consulate(s) general

consulate(s)

branch office(s)

Flag description:

Government - note:









Economy ::



Economy - overview:

GDP (purchasing power parity):

GDP (official exchange rate):

GDP - real growth rate:

GDP - per capita (PPP):

GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture

industry

services

Labor force:

Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture

industry

services

Unemployment rate:

Population below poverty line:

Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%

highest 10%

Distribution of family income - Gini index:

Investment (gross fixed):

Budget:

revenues

expenditures

Public debt:

Inflation rate (consumer prices):

Central bank discount rate:

Commercial bank prime lending rate:

Stock of money:

Stock of quasi money:

Stock of domestic credit:

Market value of publicly traded shares:

Agriculture - products:

Industries:

Industrial production growth rate:

Electricity - production:

Electricity - consumption:

Electricity - exports:

Electricity - imports:

Oil - production:

Oil - consumption:

Oil - exports:

Oil - imports:

Oil - proved reserves:

Natural gas - production:

Natural gas - consumption:

Natural gas - exports:

Natural gas - imports:

Natural gas - proved reserves:

Current account balance:

Exports:

Exports - commodities:

Exports - partners:

Imports:

Imports - commodities:

Imports - partners:

Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

Debt - external:

Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

Exchange rates:









Communications ::



Telephones - main lines in use:

Telephones - mobile cellular:

Telephone system:

general assessment

domestic

international

Broadcast media:

Internet country code:

Internet hosts:

Internet users:

Communications - note:









Transportation ::



Airports:

Airports - with paved runways:

total

over 3,047 m

2,438 to 3,047 m

1,524 to 2,437 m

914 to 1,530 m

under 914 m

Airports - with unpaved runways:

total

over 3,047 m

2,438 to 3,047 m

1,524 to 2,437 m

914 to 1,530 m

under 914 m

Heliports:

Pipelines:

Railways:

total

broad gauge

standard gauge

narrow gauge

dual gauge

Roadways:

total

paved

unpaved

Waterways:

Merchant marine:

total

ships by type

foreign-owned

registered in other countries

Ports and terminals:

Transportation - note:








Military ::



Military branches:

Military service age and obligation:

Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49

females age 16-49

Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49

females age 16-49

Manpower reaching military age annually:

males

females

Military expenditures - percent of GDP:

Military - note:









Transnational Issues ::



Disputes - international:

Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees

IDPs

Trafficking in persons:

current situation

tier rating

Illicit drugs:



======================================================================



The World Factbook (2010) - Country Listing


[Transcriber's note: To search on a country in this file, prefix the
country's name with "@", e.g. "@Afghanistan".  "Afghanistan" will find
all occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]





World


A

Afghanistan
Akrotiri
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan


B

Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burma
Burundi


C

Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic


D

Denmark
Dhekelia
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic


E

Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia


F

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands


G

Gabon
Gambia, The
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana


H

Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary


I

Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy


J

Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jersey
Jordan


K

Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan


L

Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg


M

Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique


N

Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway


O

Oman


P

Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico


Q

Qatar


R

Romania
Russia
Rwanda


S

Saint Barthelemy
Saint Helena, Ascension, and Tristan da Cunha
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands
Southern Ocean
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria


T

Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu


U

Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Uruguay
Uzbekistan


V

Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands


W

Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara


Y

Yemen


Z

Zambia
Zimbabwe


T

Taiwan


E

European Union



======================================================================



Field Listings


[Transcriber's note: To search on a field code in this file, prefix
the code number with "@", e.g. "@2001".  "2001" will find all
occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]



Code    Field Description

2001    GDP (purchasing power parity)
2002    Population growth rate
2003    GDP - real growth rate
2004    GDP - per capita (PPP)
2005    Affiliation
2006    Dependency status
2007    Diplomatic representation from the US
2008    Transportation - note
2010    Age structure
2011    Geographic coordinates
2012    GDP - composition by sector
2013    Radio broadcast stations
2014
2015    Television broadcast stations
2016
2018    Sex ratio
2019    Heliports
2020    Elevation extremes
2021    Natural hazards
2022    People - note
2023    Area - comparative
2024    Military service age and obligation
2025    Manpower fit for military service
2026    Manpower reaching militarily significant age
2028    Background
2030    Airports - with paved runways
2031    Airports - with unpaved runways
2032    Environment - current issues
2033    Environment - international agreements
2034    Military expenditures
2038    Electricity - production
2042    Electricity - consumption
2043    Electricity - imports
2044    Electricity - exports
2045    Electricity - production by source
2046    Population below poverty line
2047    Household income or consumption by percentage share
2048    Labor force - by occupation
2049    Exports - commodities
2050    Exports - partners
2051    Administrative divisions
2052    Agriculture - products
2053    Airports
2054    Birth rate
2055    Military branches
2056    Budget
2057    Capital
2058    Imports - commodities
2059    Climate
2060    Coastline
2061    Imports - partners
2062
2063    Constitution
2064
2065
2066    Death rate
2068    Dependent areas
2070    Disputes - international
2075    Ethnic groups
2076    Exchange rates
2077    Executive branch
2078    Exports
2079    Debt - external
2080
2081    Flag description
2085    Roadways
2086    Illicit drugs
2087    Imports
2088    Independence
2089    Industrial production growth rate
2090    Industries
2091    Infant mortality rate
2092    Inflation rate (consumer prices)
2093    Waterways
2094    Judicial branch
2095    Labor force
2096    Land boundaries
2097    Land use
2098    Languages
2100    Legal system
2101    Legislative branch
2102    Life expectancy at birth
2103    Literacy
2105    Manpower available for military service
2106    Maritime claims
2107    International organization participation
2108    Merchant marine
2109    National holiday
2110    Nationality
2111    Natural resources
2112    Net migration rate
2113    Geography - note
2115    Political pressure groups and leaders
2116    Economy - overview
2117    Pipelines
2118    Political parties and leaders
2119    Population
2120    Ports and terminals
2121    Railways
2122    Religions
2123    Suffrage
2124    Telephone system
2125    Terrain
2127    Total fertility rate
2128    Government type
2129    Unemployment rate
2137    Military - note
2138    Communications - note
2140    Government - note
2141    Group
2142    Country name
2144    Location
2145    Map references
2146    Irrigated land
2147    Area
2149    Diplomatic representation in the US
2150    Telephones - main lines in use
2151    Telephones - mobile cellular
2152
2153    Internet users
2154    Internet country code
2155    HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
2156    HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS
2157    HIV/AIDS - deaths
2158
2172    Distribution of family income - Gini index
2173    Oil - production
2174    Oil - consumption
2175    Oil - imports
2176    Oil - exports
2177    Median age
2178    Oil - proved reserves
2179    Natural gas - proved reserves
2180    Natural gas - production
2181    Natural gas - consumption
2182    Natural gas - imports
2183    Natural gas - exports
2184    Internet hosts
2185    Investment (gross fixed)
2186    Public debt
2187    Current account balance
2188    Reserves of foreign exchange and gold
2189    Union name
2190    Political structure
2191    Member states
2192    Preliminary statement
2193    Major infectious diseases
2194    Refugees and internally displaced persons
2195    GDP (official exchange rate)
2196    Trafficking in persons
2198    Stock of direct foreign investment - at home
2199    Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad
2200    Market value of publicly traded shares
2201    Total renewable water resources
2202    Freshwater withdrawal
2203    Geographic overview
2204    Economy of the area administered by Turkish Cypriots
2205    School life expectancy (primary to tertiary
2206    Education expenditures
2207    Central bank discount rate
2208    Commercial bank prime lending rate
2209    Stock of money
2210    Stock of quasi money
2211    Stock of domestic credit
2212    Urbanization
2213    Broadcast media
2214    Stock of narrow money
2215    Stock of broad money



======================================================================



References :: Guide to Country Comparisons



Country Comparison pages are presorted lists of data from selected
Factbook data fields. Country Comparison pages are generally given
in descending order - highest to lowest - such as Population and
Area. The two exceptions are Unemployment Rate and Inflation Rate,
which are in ascending - lowest to highest - order. Country
Comparison pages are available for the following 58 fields in six of
the nine Factbook categories.





Geography ::



Area:

total





People ::



Population:

Population growth rate:

Birth rate:

Death rate:

Net migration rate:

Infant mortality rate:

Life expectancy at birth:

Total fertility rate:

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

HIV/AIDS - deaths:

Education expenditures:





Economy ::



GDP (purchasing power parity):

GDP real growth rate:

GDP - per capita (PPP):

Labor force:

Unemployment rate:

Distribution of family income - Gini Index:

Investment (gross fixed):

Public debt:

Inflation rate (consumer prices):

Central bank discount rate:

Commercial bank prime lending rate:

Stock of money:

Stock of quasi money:

Stock of domestic credit:

Market value of publicly traded shares:

Industrial production growth rate:

Electricity - production:

Electricity - consumption:

Oil - production:

Oil - consumption:

Oil - exports:

Oil - imports:

Oil - proved reserves:

Natural gas - production:

Natural gas - consumption:

Natural gas - exports:

Natural gas - imports:

Natural gas - proved reserves:

Current account balance:

Exports:

Imports:

Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

Debt - external:

Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:





Communications ::



Telephones - main lines in use:

Telephones - mobile cellular:

Internet hosts:

Internet users:





Transportation ::



Airports:

Railways:

total

Roadways:

total

Waterways:

Merchant marine:

total





Military ::



Military expenditures - percent of GDP:






Not all Country Comparisons include the same number of entries
because information for a particular field is not available for all
countries. In addition, not all data fields are suitable for
displaying as Country Comparisons, such as those containing textual
information. Textual information is more readily viewed by clicking
on the Field Listing icon next to the Data field title.



All of the Country Comparisons' pages can be downloaded as
tab-delimited data files and can be opened in other applications
such as spreadsheets and databases. To save a Country Comparisons
page in a spreadsheet, first click on the 'Download Datafile' choice
above the Country Comparisons page you selected; then, at the top of
your browser window, click on 'File' and 'Save As'. After saving the
file, open the spreadsheet, find the saved file, and 'Open' it.



======================================================================



Appendixes


Appendix A - Abbreviations

Appendix B - International Organizations and Groups

Appendix C - Selected International Environmental Agreements

Appendix D - Cross-Reference list of Country Data Codes

Appendix E - Cross-Reference List of Hydrographic Data Codes

Appendix F - Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names

Appendix G - Weights and Measures


======================================================================



References :: Definitions and Notes



A


Abbreviations


This information is included in Appendix A: Abbreviations, which
includes all abbreviations and acronyms used in the Factbook, with
their expansions.

Acronyms


An acronym is an abbreviation coined from the initial letter of each
successive word in a term or phrase. In general, an acronym made up
solely from the first letter of the major words in the expanded form
is rendered in all capital letters (NATO from North Atlantic Treaty
Organization; an exception would be ASEAN for Association of
Southeast Asian Nations). In general, an acronym made up of more
than the first letter of the major words in the expanded form is
rendered with only an initial capital letter (Comsat from
Communications Satellite Corporation; an exception would be NAM from
Nonaligned Movement). Hybrid forms are sometimes used to distinguish
between initially identical terms (ICC for International Chamber of
Commerce and ICCt for International Criminal Court).



Administrative divisions


This entry generally gives the numbers, designatory terms, and
first-order administrative divisions as approved by the US Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been reported but not yet
acted on by the BGN are noted.



Age structure


This entry provides the distribution of the population according to
age. Information is included by sex and age group (0-14 years, 15-64
years, 65 years and over). The age structure of a population affects
a nation's key socioeconomic issues. Countries with young
populations (high percentage under age 15) need to invest more in
schools, while countries with older populations (high percentage
ages 65 and over) need to invest more in the health sector. The age
structure can also be used to help predict potential political
issues. For example, the rapid growth of a young adult population
unable to find employment can lead to unrest.



Agriculture - products


This entry is an ordered listing of major crops and products
starting with the most important.



Airports


This entry gives the total number of airports or airfields
recognizable from the air. The runway(s) may be paved (concrete or
asphalt surfaces) or unpaved (grass, earth, sand, or gravel
surfaces) and may include closed or abandoned installations.
Airports or airfields that are no longer recognizable (overgrown, no
facilities, etc.) are not included. Note that not all airports have
accommodations for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.



Airports - with paved runways


This entry gives the total number of airports with paved runways
(concrete or asphalt surfaces) by length. For airports with more
than one runway, only the longest runway is included according to
the following five groups - (1) over 3,047 m (over 10,000 ft), (2)
2,438 to 3,047 m (8,000 to 10,000 ft), (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m (5,000
to 8,000 ft), (4) 914 to 1,523 m (3,000 to 5,000 ft), and (5) under
914 m (under 3,000 ft). Only airports with usable runways are
included in this listing. Not all airports have facilities for
refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control. The type aircraft
capable of operating from a runway of a given length is dependent
upon a number of factors including elevation of the runway, runway
gradient, average maximum daily temperature at the airport, engine
types, flap settings, and take-off weight of the aircraft.



Airports - with unpaved runways


This entry gives the total number of airports with unpaved runways
(grass, dirt, sand, or gravel surfaces) by length. For airports with
more than one runway, only the longest runway is included according
to the following five groups - (1) over 3,047 m (over 10,000 ft),
(2) 2,438 to 3,047 m (8,000 to 10,000 ft), (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m
(5,000 to 8,000 ft), (4) 914 to 1,523 m (3,000 to 5,000 ft), and (5)
under 914 m (under 3,000 ft). Only airports with usable runways are
included in this listing. Not all airports have facilities for
refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control. The type aircraft
capable of operating from a runway of a given length is dependent
upon a number of factors including elevation of the runway, runway
gradient, average maximum daily temperature at the airport, engine
types, flap settings, and take-off weight of the aircraft.

Appendixes


This section includes Factbook-related material by topic.



Area


This entry includes three subfields. Total area is the sum of all
land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or
coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water
bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Water area is the sum of the
surfaces of all inland water bodies, such as lakes, reservoirs, or
rivers, as delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.



Area - comparative


This entry provides an area comparison based on total area
equivalents. Most entities are compared with the entire US or one of
the 50 states based on area measurements (1990 revised) provided by
the US Bureau of the Census. The smaller entities are compared with
Washington, DC (178 sq km, 69 sq mi) or The Mall in Washington, DC
(0.59 sq km, 0.23 sq mi, 146 acres).



B




Background


This entry usually highlights major historic events and current
issues and may include a statement about one or two key future
trends.



Birth rate


This entry gives the average annual number of births during a year
per 1,000 persons in the population at midyear; also known as crude
birth rate. The birth rate is usually the dominant factor in
determining the rate of population growth. It depends on both the
level of fertility and the age structure of the population.



Broadcast media


This entry provides information on the approximate number of public
and private TV and radio stations in a country, as well as basic
information on the availability of satellite and cable TV services.



Budget


This entry includes revenues, expenditures, and capital
expenditures. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate
basis, i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.



C




Capital


This entry gives the name of the seat of government, its geographic
coordinates, the time difference relative to Coordinated Universal
Time (UTC) and the time observed in Washington, DC, and, if
applicable, information on daylight saving time (DST). Where
appropriate, a special note has been added to highlight those
countries that have multiple time zones.



Central bank discount rate


This entry provides the annualized interest rate a country's central
bank charges commercial, depository banks for loans to meet
temporary shortages of funds.



Climate


This entry includes a brief description of typical weather regimes
throughout the year.



Coastline


This entry gives the total length of the boundary between the land
area (including islands) and the sea.



Commercial bank prime lending rate


This entry provides a simple average of annualized interest rates
commercial banks charge on new loans, denominated in the national
currency, to their most credit-worthy customers.

Communications


This category deals with the means of exchanging information and
includes the telephone, radio, television, and Internet host entries.



Communications - note


This entry includes miscellaneous communications information of
significance not included elsewhere.



Constitution


This entry includes the dates of adoption, revisions, and major
amendments.

Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)


UTC is the international atomic time scale that serves as the basis
of timekeeping for most of the world. The hours, minutes, and
seconds expressed by UTC represent the time of day at the Prime
Meridian (0 deg. longitude) located near Greenwich, England as reckoned
from midnight. UTC is calculated by the Bureau International des
Poids et Measures (BIPM) in Sevres, France. The BIPM averages data
collected from more than 200 atomic time and frequency standards
located at about 50 laboratories worldwide. UTC is the basis for all
civil time with the Earth divided into time zones expressed as
positive or negative differences from UTC. UTC is also referred to
as "Zulu time." See the Standard Time Zones of the World map
included with the Reference Maps.

Country data codes


See Data codes.

Country map


Most versions of the Factbook provide a country map in color. The
maps were produced from the best information available at the time
of preparation. Names and/or boundaries may have changed
subsequently.



Country name


This entry includes all forms of the country's name approved by the
US Board on Geographic Names (Italy is used as an example):
conventional long form (Italian Republic), conventional short form
(Italy), local long form (Repubblica Italiana), local short form
(Italia), former (Kingdom of Italy), as well as the abbreviation.
Also see the Terminology note.

Crude oil


See entry for oil.



Current account balance


This entry records a country's net trade in goods and services, plus
net earnings from rents, interest, profits, and dividends, and net
transfer payments (such as pension funds and worker remittances) to
and from the rest of the world during the period specified. These
figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in
purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.



D


Data codes


This information is presented in This information is presented in <a
href = "../appendix/appendix-d.html"Appendix D: Cross-Reference List
of Country Data Codes and and <a href =
"../appendix/appendix-e.html" Appendix E: Cross-Reference List of
Hydrographic Data Codes.

Date of information


In general, information available as of January in a given year is
used in the preparation of the printed edition.

Daylight Saving Time (DST)


This entry is included for those entities that have adopted a policy
of adjusting the official local time forward, usually one hour, from
Standard Time during summer months. Such policies are most common in
mid-latitude regions.



Death rate


This entry gives the average annual number of deaths during a year
per 1,000 population at midyear; also known as crude death rate. The
death rate, while only a rough indicator of the mortality situation
in a country, accurately indicates the current mortality impact on
population growth. This indicator is significantly affected by age
distribution, and most countries will eventually show a rise in the
overall death rate, in spite of continued decline in mortality at
all ages, as declining fertility results in an aging population.



Debt - external


This entry gives the total public and private debt owed to
nonresidents repayable in internationally accepted currencies,
goods, or services. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate
basis, i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.



Dependency status


This entry describes the formal relationship between a particular
nonindependent entity and an independent state.



Dependent areas


This entry contains an alphabetical listing of all nonindependent
entities associated in some way with a particular independent state.

Diplomatic representation


The US Government has diplomatic relations with 189 independent
states, including 187 of the 192 UN members (excluded UN members are
Bhutan, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and the US itself). In addition,
the US has diplomatic relations with 2 independent states that are
not in the UN, the Holy See and Kosovo, as well as with the EU.



Diplomatic representation from the US


This entry includes the chief of mission, embassy address, mailing
address, telephone number, FAX number, branch office locations,
consulate general locations, and consulate locations.



Diplomatic representation in the US


This entry includes the chief of mission, chancery, telephone, FAX,
consulate general locations, and consulate locations.



Disputes - international


This entry includes a wide variety of situations that range from
traditional bilateral boundary disputes to unilateral claims of one
sort or another. Information regarding disputes over international
terrestrial and maritime boundaries has been reviewed by the US
Department of State. References to other situations involving
borders or frontiers may also be included, such as resource
disputes, geopolitical questions, or irredentist issues; however,
inclusion does not necessarily constitute official acceptance or
recognition by the US Government.



Distribution of family income - Gini index


This index measures the degree of inequality in the distribution of
family income in a country. The index is calculated from the Lorenz
curve, in which cumulative family income is plotted against the
number of families arranged from the poorest to the richest. The
index is the ratio of (a) the area between a country's Lorenz curve
and the 45 degree helping line to (b) the entire triangular area
under the 45 degree line. The more nearly equal a country's income
distribution, the closer its Lorenz curve to the 45 degree line and
the lower its Gini index, e.g., a Scandinavian country with an index
of 25. The more unequal a country's income distribution, the farther
its Lorenz curve from the 45 degree line and the higher its Gini
index, e.g., a Sub-Saharan country with an index of 50. If income
were distributed with perfect equality, the Lorenz curve would
coincide with the 45 degree line and the index would be zero; if
income were distributed with perfect inequality, the Lorenz curve
would coincide with the horizontal axis and the right vertical axis
and the index would be 100.



E


Economy


This category includes the entries dealing with the size,
development, and management of productive resources, i.e., land,
labor, and capital.



Economy - overview


This entry briefly describes the type of economy, including the
degree of market orientation, the level of economic development, the
most important natural resources, and the unique areas of
specialization. It also characterizes major economic events and
policy changes in the most recent 12 months and may include a
statement about one or two key future macroeconomic trends.



Education expenditures


This entry provides the public expenditure on education as a percent
of GDP.



Electricity - consumption


This entry consists of total electricity generated annually plus
imports and minus exports, expressed in kilowatt-hours. The
discrepancy between the amount of electricity generated and/or
imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is accounted for as
loss in transmission and distribution.



Electricity - exports


This entry is the total exported electricity in kilowatt-hours.



Electricity - imports


This entry is the total imported electricity in kilowatt-hours.



Electricity - production


This entry is the annual electricity generated expressed in
kilowatt-hours. The discrepancy between the amount of electricity
generated and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is
accounted for as loss in transmission and distribution.



Elevation extremes


This entry includes both the highest point and the lowest point.

Entities


Some of the independent states, dependencies, areas of special
sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are not
independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government. "Independent state" refers to a people politically
organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
"Dependencies" and "areas of special sovereignty" refer to a broad
category of political entities that are associated in some way with
an independent state. "Country" names used in the table of contents
or for page headings are usually the short-form names as approved by
the US Board on Geographic Names and may include independent states,
dependencies, and areas of special sovereignty, or other geographic
entities. There are a total of 266 separate geographic entities in
The World Factbook that may be categorized as follows:
INDEPENDENT STATES
194 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan,
Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia,
Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands,
NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
OTHER
2 Taiwan, European Union
DEPENDENCIES AND AREAS OF SPECIAL SOVEREIGNTY
6 Australia - Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
(Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
Islands, Norfolk Island
2 China - Hong Kong, Macau
2 Denmark - Faroe Islands, Greenland
9 France - Clipperton Island, French Polynesia, French Southern and
Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Saint Barthelemy, Saint
Martin, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Wallis and Futuna
3 Netherlands - Aruba, Curacao, Sint Maarten
3 New Zealand - Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau
3 Norway - Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard
17 UK - Akrotiri, Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dhekelia, Falkland Islands,
Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn
Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands,
Turks and Caicos Islands
14 US - American Samoa, Baker Island*, Guam, Howland Island*, Jarvis
Island*, Johnston Atoll*, Kingman Reef*, Midway Islands*, Navassa
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll*, Puerto Rico,
Virgin Islands, Wake Island (* consolidated in United States Pacific
Island Wildlife Refuges entry)
MISCELLANEOUS
6 Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West
Bank, Western Sahara
OTHER ENTITIES
5 oceans - Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific
Ocean, Southern Ocean
1 World

267 total



Environment - current issues


This entry lists the most pressing and important environmental
problems. The following terms and abbreviations are used throughout
the entry:
Acidification - the lowering of soil and water pH due to acid
precipitation and deposition usually through precipitation; this
process disrupts ecosystem nutrient flows and may kill freshwater
fish and plants dependent on more neutral or alkaline conditions
(see acid rain).
Acid rain - characterized as containing harmful levels of sulfur
dioxide or nitrogen oxide; acid rain is damaging and potentially
deadly to the earth's fragile ecosystems; acidity is measured using
the pH scale where 7 is neutral, values greater than 7 are
considered alkaline, and values below 5.6 are considered acid
precipitation; note - a pH of 2.4 (the acidity of vinegar) has been
measured in rainfall in New England.
Aerosol - a collection of airborne particles dispersed in a gas,
smoke, or fog.
Afforestation - converting a bare or agricultural space by planting
trees and plants; reforestation involves replanting trees on areas
that have been cut or destroyed by fire.
Asbestos - a naturally occurring soft fibrous mineral commonly used
in fireproofing materials and considered to be highly carcinogenic
in particulate form.
Biodiversity - also biological diversity; the relative number of
species, diverse in form and function, at the genetic, organism,
community, and ecosystem level; loss of biodiversity reduces an
ecosystem's ability to recover from natural or man-induced
disruption.
Bio-indicators - a plant or animal species whose presence,
abundance, and health reveal the general condition of its habitat.
Biomass - the total weight or volume of living matter in a given
area or volume.
Carbon cycle - the term used to describe the exchange of carbon (in
various forms, e.g., as carbon dioxide) between the atmosphere,
ocean, terrestrial biosphere, and geological deposits.
Catchments - assemblages used to capture and retain rainwater and
runoff; an important water management technique in areas with
limited freshwater resources, such as Gibraltar.
DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane) - a colorless, odorless
insecticide that has toxic effects on most animals; the use of DDT
was banned in the US in 1972.
Defoliants - chemicals which cause plants to lose their leaves
artificially; often used in agricultural practices for weed control,
and may have detrimental impacts on human and ecosystem health.
Deforestation - the destruction of vast areas of forest (e.g.,
unsustainable forestry practices, agricultural and range land
clearing, and the over exploitation of wood products for use as
fuel) without planting new growth.
Desertification - the spread of desert-like conditions in arid or
semi-arid areas, due to overgrazing, loss of agriculturally
productive soils, or climate change.
Dredging - the practice of deepening an existing waterway; also, a
technique used for collecting bottom-dwelling marine organisms
(e.g., shellfish) or harvesting coral, often causing significant
destruction of reef and ocean-floor ecosystems.
Drift-net fishing - done with a net, miles in extent, that is
generally anchored to a boat and left to float with the tide; often
results in an over harvesting and waste of large populations of
non-commercial marine species (by-catch) by its effect of "sweeping
the ocean clean."
Ecosystems - ecological units comprised of complex communities of
organisms and their specific environments.
Effluents - waste materials, such as smoke, sewage, or industrial
waste which are released into the environment, subsequently
polluting it.
Endangered species - a species that is threatened with extinction
either by direct hunting or habitat destruction.
Freshwater - water with very low soluble mineral content; sources
include lakes, streams, rivers, glaciers, and underground aquifers.
Greenhouse gas - a gas that "traps" infrared radiation in the lower
atmosphere causing surface warming; water vapor, carbon dioxide,
nitrous oxide, methane, hydrofluorocarbons, and ozone are the
primary greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere.
Groundwater - water sources found below the surface of the earth
often in naturally occurring reservoirs in permeable rock strata;
the source for wells and natural springs.
Highlands Water Project - a series of dams constructed jointly by
Lesotho and South Africa to redirect Lesotho's abundant water supply
into a rapidly growing area in South Africa; while it is the largest
infrastructure project in southern Africa, it is also the most
costly and controversial; objections to the project include claims
that it forces people from their homes, submerges farmlands, and
squanders economic resources.
Inuit Circumpolar Conference (ICC) - represents the roughly 150,000
Inuits of Alaska, Canada, Greenland, and Russia in international
environmental issues; a General Assembly convenes every three years
to determine the focus of the ICC; the most current concerns are
long-range transport of pollutants, sustainable development, and
climate change.
Metallurgical plants - industries which specialize in the science,
technology, and processing of metals; these plants produce highly
concentrated and toxic wastes which can contribute to pollution of
ground water and air when not properly disposed.
Noxious substances - injurious, very harmful to living beings.
Overgrazing - the grazing of animals on plant material faster than
it can naturally regrow leading to the permanent loss of plant
cover, a common effect of too many animals grazing limited range
land.
Ozone shield - a layer of the atmosphere composed of ozone gas (O3)
that resides approximately 25 miles above the Earth's surface and
absorbs solar ultraviolet radiation that can be harmful to living
organisms.
Poaching - the illegal killing of animals or fish, a great concern
with respect to endangered or threatened species.
Pollution - the contamination of a healthy environment by man-made
waste.
Potable water - water that is drinkable, safe to be consumed.
Salination - the process through which fresh (drinkable) water
becomes salt (undrinkable) water; hence, desalination is the reverse
process; also involves the accumulation of salts in topsoil caused
by evaporation of excessive irrigation water, a process that can
eventually render soil incapable of supporting crops.
Siltation - occurs when water channels and reservoirs become clotted
with silt and mud, a side effect of deforestation and soil erosion.
Slash-and-burn agriculture - a rotating cultivation technique in
which trees are cut down and burned in order to clear land for
temporary agriculture; the land is used until its productivity
declines at which point a new plot is selected and the process
repeats; this practice is sustainable while population levels are
low and time is permitted for regrowth of natural vegetation;
conversely, where these conditions do not exist, the practice can
have disastrous consequences for the environment.
Soil degradation - damage to the land's productive capacity because
of poor agricultural practices such as the excessive use of
pesticides or fertilizers, soil compaction from heavy equipment, or
erosion of topsoil, eventually resulting in reduced ability to
produce agricultural products.
Soil erosion - the removal of soil by the action of water or wind,
compounded by poor agricultural practices, deforestation,
overgrazing, and desertification.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation - a portion of the electromagnetic energy
emitted by the sun and naturally filtered in the upper atmosphere by
the ozone layer; UV radiation can be harmful to living organisms and
has been linked to increasing rates of skin cancer in humans.
Waterborne diseases - those in which bacteria survive in, and are
transmitted through, water; always a serious threat in areas with an
untreated water supply.



Environment - international agreements


This entry separates country participation in international
environmental agreements into two levels - party to and signed, but
not ratified. Agreements are listed in alphabetical order by the
abbreviated form of the full name.

Environmental agreements


This information is presented in This information is presented in <a
href = "../appendix/appendix-c.html"Appendix C: Selected
International Environmental Agreements, which includes the name,
abbreviation, date opened for signature, date entered into force,
objective, and parties by category.



Ethnic groups


This entry provides an ordered listing of ethnic groups starting
with the largest and normally includes the percent of total
population.



Exchange rates


This entry provides the official value of a country's monetary unit
at a given date or over a given period of time, as expressed in
units of local currency per US dollar and as determined by
international market forces or official fiat. The International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 4217 alphabetic currency code
for the national medium of exchange is presented in parenthesis.



Executive branch


This entry includes several subfields. Chief of state includes the
name and title of the titular leader of the country who represents
the state at official and ceremonial functions but may not be
involved with the day-to-day activities of the government. Head of
government includes the name and title of the top administrative
leader who is designated to manage the day-to-day activities of the
government. For example, in the UK, the monarch is the chief of
state, and the prime minister is the head of government. In the US,
the president is both the chief of state and the head of government.
Cabinet includes the official name for this body of high-ranking
advisers and the method for selection of members. Elections includes
the nature of election process or accession to power, date of the
last election, and date of the next election. Election results
includes the percent of vote for each candidate in the last election.



Exports


This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
exports on an f.o.b. (free on board) basis. These figures are
calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in purchasing power
parity (PPP) terms.



Exports - commodities


This entry provides a listing of the highest-valued exported
products; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar value.



Exports - partners


This entry provides a rank ordering of trading partners starting
with the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total
dollar value.



F




Flag description


This entry provides a written flag description produced from actual
flags or the best information available at the time the entry was
written. The flags of independent states are used by their
dependencies unless there is an officially recognized local flag.
Some disputed and other areas do not have flags.

Flag graphic


Most versions of the Factbook include a color flag at the beginning
of the country profile. The flag graphics were produced from actual
flags or the best information available at the time of preparation.
The flags of independent states are used by their dependencies
unless there is an officially recognized local flag. Some disputed
and other areas do not have flags.



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural)


This entry provides the annual quantity of water in cubic kilometers
removed from available sources for use in any purpose. Water
drawn-off is not necessarily entirely consumed and some portion may
be returned for further use downstream. Domestic sector use refers
to water supplied by public distribution systems. Note that some of
this total may be used for small industrial and/or limited
agricultural purposes. Industrial sector use is the quantity of
water used by self-supplied industries not connected to a public
distribution system. Agricultural sector use includes water used for
irrigation and livestock watering, and does not account for
agriculture directly dependent on rainfall. Included are figures for
total annual water withdrawal and per capita water withdrawal.



G




GDP (official exchange rate)


This entry gives the gross domestic product (GDP) or value of all
final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year. A
nation's GDP at official exchange rates (OER) is the
home-currency-denominated annual GDP figure divided by the bilateral
average US exchange rate with that country in that year. The measure
is simple to compute and gives a precise measure of the value of
output. Many economists prefer this measure when gauging the
economic power an economy maintains vis-a-vis its neighbors, judging
that an exchange rate captures the purchasing power a nation enjoys
in the international marketplace. Official exchange rates, however,
can be artificially fixed and/or subject to manipulation - resulting
in claims of the country having an under- or over-valued currency -
and are not necessarily the equivalent of a market-determined
exchange rate. Moreover, even if the official exchange rate is
market-determined, market exchange rates are frequently established
by a relatively small set of goods and services (the ones the
country trades) and may not capture the value of the larger set of
goods the country produces. Furthermore, OER-converted GDP is not
well suited to comparing domestic GDP over time, since
appreciation/depreciation from one year to the next will make the
OER GDP value rise/fall regardless of whether
home-currency-denominated GDP changed.



GDP (purchasing power parity)


This entry gives the gross domestic product (GDP) or value of all
final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year. A
nation's GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rates is the
sum value of all goods and services produced in the country valued
at prices prevailing in the United States. This is the measure most
economists prefer when looking at per-capita welfare and when
comparing living conditions or use of resources across countries.
The measure is difficult to compute, as a US dollar value has to be
assigned to all goods and services in the country regardless of
whether these goods and services have a direct equivalent in the
United States (for example, the value of an ox-cart or non-US
military equipment); as a result, PPP estimates for some countries
are based on a small and sometimes different set of goods and
services. In addition, many countries do not formally participate in
the World Bank's PPP project that calculates these measures, so the
resulting GDP estimates for these countries may lack precision. For
many developing countries, PPP-based GDP measures are multiples of
the official exchange rate (OER) measure. The differences between
the OER- and PPP-denominated GDP values for most of the wealthy
industrialized countries are generally much smaller.



GDP - composition by sector


This entry gives the percentage contribution of agriculture,
industry, and services to total GDP. The distribution will total
less than 100 percent if the data are incomplete.



GDP - per capita (PPP)


This entry shows GDP on a purchasing power parity basis divided by
population as of 1 July for the same year.



GDP - real growth rate


This entry gives GDP growth on an annual basis adjusted for
inflation and expressed as a percent.

GDP methodology


In the Economy category, GDP dollar estimates for countries are
reported both on an official exchange rate (OER) and a purchasing
power parity (PPP) basis. Both measures contain information that is
useful to the reader. The PPP method involves the use of
standardized international dollar price weights, which are applied
to the quantities of final goods and services produced in a given
economy. The data derived from the PPP method probably provide the
best available starting point for comparisons of economic strength
and well-being between countries. In contrast, the currency exchange
rate method involves a variety of international and domestic
financial forces that may not capture the value of domestic output.
Whereas PPP estimates for OECD countries are quite reliable, PPP
estimates for developing countries are often rough approximations.
In developing countries with weak currencies, the exchange rate
estimate of GDP in dollars is typically one-fourth to one-half the
PPP estimate. Most of the GDP estimates for developing countries are
based on extrapolation of PPP numbers published by the UN
International Comparison Program (UNICP) and by Professors Robert
Summers and Alan Heston of the University of Pennsylvania and their
colleagues. GDP derived using the OER method should be used for the
purpose of calculating the share of items such as exports, imports,
military expenditures, external debt, or the current account
balance, because the dollar values presented in the Factbook for
these items have been converted at official exchange rates, not at
PPP. One should use the OER GDP figure to calculate the proportion
of, say, Chinese defense expenditures in GDP, because that share
will be the same as one calculated in local currency units.
Comparison of OER GDP with PPP GDP may also indicate whether a
currency is over- or under-valued. If OER GDP is smaller than PPP
GDP, the official exchange rate may be undervalued, and vice versa.
However, there is no strong historical evidence that market exchange
rates move in the direction implied by the PPP rate, at least not in
the short- or medium-term. Note: the numbers for GDP and other
economic data should not be chained together from successive volumes
of the Factbook because of changes in the US dollar measuring rod,
revisions of data by statistical agencies, use of new or different
sources of information, and changes in national statistical methods
and practices.



Geographic coordinates


This entry includes rounded latitude and longitude figures for the
purpose of finding the approximate geographic center of an entity
and is based on the locations provided in the Geographic Names
Server (GNS), maintained by the National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency on behalf of the US Board on Geographic Names.

Geographic names


This information is presented in This information is presented in <a
href = "../appendix/appendix-f.html"Appendix F: Cross Reference List
of Geographic Names. It includes a listing of various alternate
names, former names, local names, and regional names referenced to
one or more related Factbook entries. Spellings are normally, but
not always, those approved by the US Board on Geographic Names
(BGN). Alternate names and additional information are included in
parentheses.

Geography


This category includes the entries dealing with the natural
environment and the effects of human activity.



Geography - note


This entry includes miscellaneous geographic information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Gini index


See entry for Distribution of family income - Gini index

GNP


Gross national product (GNP) is the value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year, plus income
earned by its citizens abroad, minus income earned by foreigners
from domestic production. The Factbook, following current practice,
uses GDP rather than GNP to measure national production. However,
the user must realize that in certain countries net remittances from
citizens working abroad may be important to national well-being.

Government


This category includes the entries dealing with the system for the
adoption and administration of public policy.



Government - note


This entry includes miscellaneous government information of
significance not included elsewhere.



Government type


This entry gives the basic form of government. Definitions of the
major governmental terms are as follows. (Note that for some
countries more than one definition applies.):
Absolute monarchy - a form of government where the monarch rules
unhindered, i.e., without any laws, constitution, or legally
organized opposition.
Anarchy - a condition of lawlessness or political disorder brought
about by the absence of governmental authority.
Authoritarian - a form of government in which state authority is
imposed onto many aspects of citizens' lives.
Commonwealth - a nation, state, or other political entity founded on
law and united by a compact of the people for the common good.
Communist - a system of government in which the state plans and
controls the economy and a single - often authoritarian - party
holds power; state controls are imposed with the elimination of
private ownership of property or capital while claiming to make
progress toward a higher social order in which all goods are equally
shared by the people (i.e., a classless society).
Confederacy (Confederation) - a union by compact or treaty between
states, provinces, or territories, that creates a central government
with limited powers; the constituent entities retain supreme
authority over all matters except those delegated to the central
government.
Constitutional - a government by or operating under an authoritative
document (constitution) that sets forth the system of fundamental
laws and principles that determines the nature, functions, and
limits of that government.
Constitutional democracy - a form of government in which the
sovereign power of the people is spelled out in a governing
constitution.
Constitutional monarchy - a system of government in which a monarch
is guided by a constitution whereby his/her rights, duties, and
responsibilities are spelled out in written law or by custom.
Democracy - a form of government in which the supreme power is
retained by the people, but which is usually exercised indirectly
through a system of representation and delegated authority
periodically renewed.
Democratic republic - a state in which the supreme power rests in
the body of citizens entitled to vote for officers and
representatives responsible to them.
Dictatorship - a form of government in which a ruler or small clique
wield absolute power (not restricted by a constitution or laws).
Ecclesiastical - a government administrated by a church.
Emirate - similar to a monarchy or sultanate, but a government in
which the supreme power is in the hands of an emir (the ruler of a
Muslim state); the emir may be an absolute overlord or a sovereign
with constitutionally limited authority.
Federal (Federation) - a form of government in which sovereign power
is formally divided - usually by means of a constitution - between a
central authority and a number of constituent regions (states,
colonies, or provinces) so that each region retains some management
of its internal affairs; differs from a confederacy in that the
central government exerts influence directly upon both individuals
as well as upon the regional units.
Federal republic - a state in which the powers of the central
government are restricted and in which the component parts (states,
colonies, or provinces) retain a degree of self-government; ultimate
sovereign power rests with the voters who chose their governmental
representatives.
Islamic republic - a particular form of government adopted by some
Muslim states; although such a state is, in theory, a theocracy, it
remains a republic, but its laws are required to be compatible with
the laws of Islam.
Maoism - the theory and practice of Marxism-Leninism developed in
China by Mao Zedong (Mao Tse-tung), which states that a continuous
revolution is necessary if the leaders of a communist state are to
keep in touch with the people.
Marxism - the political, economic, and social principles espoused by
19th century economist Karl Marx; he viewed the struggle of workers
as a progression of historical forces that would proceed from a
class struggle of the proletariat (workers) exploited by capitalists
(business owners), to a socialist "dictatorship of the proletariat,"
to, finally, a classless society - Communism.
Marxism-Leninism - an expanded form of communism developed by Lenin
from doctrines of Karl Marx; Lenin saw imperialism as the final
stage of capitalism and shifted the focus of workers' struggle from
developed to underdeveloped countries.
Monarchy - a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the
hands of a monarch who reigns over a state or territory, usually for
life and by hereditary right; the monarch may be either a sole
absolute ruler or a sovereign - such as a king, queen, or prince -
with constitutionally limited authority.
Oligarchy - a government in which control is exercised by a small
group of individuals whose authority generally is based on wealth or
power.
Parliamentary democracy - a political system in which the
legislature (parliament) selects the government - a prime minister,
premier, or chancellor along with the cabinet ministers - according
to party strength as expressed in elections; by this system, the
government acquires a dual responsibility: to the people as well as
to the parliament.
Parliamentary government (Cabinet-Parliamentary government) - a
government in which members of an executive branch (the cabinet and
its leader - a prime minister, premier, or chancellor) are nominated
to their positions by a legislature or parliament, and are directly
responsible to it; this type of government can be dissolved at will
by the parliament (legislature) by means of a no confidence vote or
the leader of the cabinet may dissolve the parliament if it can no
longer function.
Parliamentary monarchy - a state headed by a monarch who is not
actively involved in policy formation or implementation (i.e., the
exercise of sovereign powers by a monarch in a ceremonial capacity);
true governmental leadership is carried out by a cabinet and its
head - a prime minister, premier, or chancellor - who are drawn from
a legislature (parliament).
Presidential - a system of government where the executive branch
exists separately from a legislature (to which it is generally not
accountable).
Republic - a representative democracy in which the people's elected
deputies (representatives), not the people themselves, vote on
legislation.
Socialism - a government in which the means of planning, producing,
and distributing goods is controlled by a central government that
theoretically seeks a more just and equitable distribution of
property and labor; in actuality, most socialist governments have
ended up being no more than dictatorships over workers by a ruling
elite.
Sultanate - similar to a monarchy, but a government in which the
supreme power is in the hands of a sultan (the head of a Muslim
state); the sultan may be an absolute ruler or a sovereign with
constitutionally limited authority.
Theocracy - a form of government in which a Deity is recognized as
the supreme civil ruler, but the Deity's laws are interpreted by
ecclesiastical authorities (bishops, mullahs, etc.); a government
subject to religious authority.
Totalitarian - a government that seeks to subordinate the individual
to the state by controlling not only all political and economic
matters, but also the attitudes, values, and beliefs of its
population.

Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)


The mean solar time at the Greenwich Meridian, Greenwich, England,
with the hours and days, since 1925, reckoned from midnight. GMT is
now a historical term having been replaced by UTC on 1 January 1972.
See Coordinated Universal Time.

Gross domestic product


See GDP

Gross national product


See GNP

Gross world product


See GWP

GWP


This entry gives the gross world product (GWP) or aggregate value of
all final goods and services produced worldwide in a given year.



H




Heliports


This entry gives the total number of heliports with hard-surface
runways, helipads, or landing areas that support routine sustained
helicopter operations exclusively and have support facilities
including one or more of the following facilities: lighting, fuel,
passenger handling, or maintenance. It includes former airports used
exclusively for helicopter operations but excludes heliports limited
to day operations and natural clearings that could support
helicopter landings and takeoffs.



HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate


This entry gives an estimate of the percentage of adults (aged
15-49) living with HIV/AIDS. The adult prevalence rate is calculated
by dividing the estimated number of adults living with HIV/AIDS at
yearend by the total adult population at yearend.



HIV/AIDS - deaths


This entry gives an estimate of the number of adults and children
who died of AIDS during a given calendar year.



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS


This entry gives an estimate of all people (adults and children)
alive at yearend with HIV infection, whether or not they have
developed symptoms of AIDS.



Household income or consumption by percentage share


Data on household income or consumption come from household surveys,
the results adjusted for household size. Nations use different
standards and procedures in collecting and adjusting the data.
Surveys based on income will normally show a more unequal
distribution than surveys based on consumption. The quality of
surveys is improving with time, yet caution is still necessary in
making inter-country comparisons.

Hydrographic data codes


See Data codes



I




Illicit drugs


This entry gives information on the five categories of illicit drugs
- narcotics, stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and
cannabis. These categories include many drugs legally produced and
prescribed by doctors as well as those illegally produced and sold
outside of medical channels.
Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana
(pot, Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC,
Marinol), hashish (hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).
Coca (mostly Erythroxylum coca) is a bush with leaves that contain
the stimulant used to make cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with
cocoa, which comes from cacao seeds and is used in making chocolate,
cocoa, and cocoa butter.
Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.
Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety
and include chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal,
Seconal, phenobarbital), benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium),
methaqualone (Quaalude), glutethimide (Doriden), and others
(Equanil, Placidyl, Valmid).
Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental,
emotional, or behavioral change in an individual.
Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance
that results in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral
impairment in an individual.
Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking,
self-awareness, and emotion. Hallucinogens include LSD (acid,
microdot), mescaline and peyote (mexc, buttons, cactus), amphetamine
variants (PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP, angel dust, hog),
phencyclidine analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others (psilocybin,
psilocyn).
Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant
(Cannabis sativa).
Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.
Mandrax is a trade name for methaqualone, a pharmaceutical
depressant.
Marijuana is the dried leaf of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).
Methaqualone is a pharmaceutical depressant, referred to as mandrax
in Southwest Asia and Africa.
Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer
to opium, opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural
narcotics include opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine
(MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with
codeine, Robitussin AC), and thebaine. Semisynthetic narcotics
include heroin (horse, smack), and hydromorphone (Dilaudid).
Synthetic narcotics include meperidine or Pethidine (Demerol,
Mepergan), methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), and others (Darvon,
Lomotil).
Opium is the brown, gummy exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of
the opium poppy.
Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for the natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.
Poppy straw is the entire cut and dried opium poppy-plant material,
other than the seeds. Opium is extracted from poppy straw in
commercial operations that produce the drug for medical use.
Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of Catha
edulis that is chewed or drunk as tea.
Quaaludes is the North American slang term for methaqualone, a
pharmaceutical depressant.
Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy
and activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines
(Desoxyn, Dexedrine), ephedrine, ecstasy (clarity, essence, doctor,
Adam), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate (Ritalin), and
others (Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).



Imports


This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
imports on a c.i.f. (cost, insurance, and freight) or f.o.b. (free
on board) basis. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate
basis, i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.



Imports - commodities


This entry provides a listing of the highest-valued imported
products; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar value.



Imports - partners


This entry provides a rank ordering of trading partners starting
with the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total
dollar value.



Independence


For most countries, this entry gives the date that sovereignty was
achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship. For the
other countries, the date given may not represent "independence" in
the strict sense, but rather some significant nationhood event such
as the traditional founding date or the date of unification,
federation, confederation, establishment, fundamental change in the
form of government, or state succession. For a number of countries,
the establishment of statehood was a lengthy evolutionary process
occurring over decades or even centuries. In such cases, several
significant dates are cited. Dependent areas include the notation
"none" followed by the nature of their dependency status. Also see
the Terminology note.



Industrial production growth rate


This entry gives the annual percentage increase in industrial
production (includes manufacturing, mining, and construction).



Industries


This entry provides a rank ordering of industries starting with the
largest by value of annual output.



Infant mortality rate


This entry gives the number of deaths of infants under one year old
in a given year per 1,000 live births in the same year; included is
the total death rate, and deaths by sex, male and female. This rate
is often used as an indicator of the level of health in a country.



Inflation rate (consumer prices)


This entry furnishes the annual percent change in consumer prices
compared with the previous year's consumer prices.

International disputes


see Disputes - international



International organization participation


This entry lists in alphabetical order by abbreviation those
international organizations in which the subject country is a member
or participates in some other way.

International organizations


This information is presented in This information is presented in <a
href = "../appendix/appendix-b.html"Appendix B: International
Organizations and Groups which includes the name, abbreviation, date
established, aim, and members by category.



Internet country code


This entry includes the two-letter codes maintained by the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in the ISO 3166
Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
(IANA) to establish country-coded top-level domains (ccTLDs).



Internet hosts


This entry lists the number of Internet hosts available within a
country. An Internet host is a computer connected directly to the
Internet; normally an Internet Service Provider's (ISP) computer is
a host. Internet users may use either a hard-wired terminal, at an
institution with a mainframe computer connected directly to the
Internet, or may connect remotely by way of a modem via telephone
line, cable, or satellite to the Internet Service Provider's host
computer. The number of hosts is one indicator of the extent of
Internet connectivity.



Internet users


This entry gives the number of users within a country that access
the Internet. Statistics vary from country to country and may
include users who access the Internet at least several times a week
to those who access it only once within a period of several months.

Introduction


This category includes one entry, Background.



Investment (gross fixed)


This entry records total business spending on fixed assets, such as
factories, machinery, equipment, dwellings, and inventories of raw
materials, which provide the basis for future production. It is
measured gross of the depreciation of the assets, i.e., it includes
investment that merely replaces worn-out or scrapped capital.



Irrigated land


This entry gives the number of square kilometers of land area that
is artificially supplied with water.



J




Judicial branch


This entry contains the name(s) of the highest court(s) and a brief
description of the selection process for members.



L




Labor force


This entry contains the total labor force figure.



Labor force - by occupation


This entry lists the percentage distribution of the labor force by
occupation. The distribution will total less than 100 percent if the
data are incomplete and may range from 99-101 percent due to
rounding.



Land boundaries


This entry contains the total length of all land boundaries and the
individual lengths for each of the contiguous border countries. When
available, official lengths published by national statistical
agencies are used. Because surveying methods may differ, country
border lengths reported by contiguous countries may differ.



Land use


This entry contains the percentage shares of total land area for
three different types of land use: arable land - land cultivated for
crops like wheat, maize, and rice that are replanted after each
harvest; permanent crops - land cultivated for crops like citrus,
coffee, and rubber that are not replanted after each harvest;
includes land under flowering shrubs, fruit trees, nut trees, and
vines, but excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber; other
- any land not arable or under permanent crops; includes permanent
meadows and pastures, forests and woodlands, built-on areas, roads,
barren land, etc.



Languages


This entry provides a rank ordering of languages starting with the
largest and sometimes includes the percent of total population
speaking that language.



Legal system


This entry provides the description of a country's legal system; it
also includes information on acceptance of International Court of
Justice (ICJ) jurisdiction. The legal systems of nearly all
countries are generally modeled upon elements of five main types:
civil law (including French law, the Napoleonic Code, Roman law,
Roman-Dutch law, and Spanish law); common law (including United
State law); customary law; mixed or pluralistic law; and religious
law (including Islamic law). An additional type of legal system -
international law, which governs the conduct of independent nations
in their relationships with one another - is also addressed below.
The following list describes these legal systems, the countries or
world regions where these systems are enforced, and a brief
statement on the origins and major features of each.
Civil Law - The most widespread type of legal system in the world,
applied in various forms in approximately 150 countries. Also
referred to as European continental law, the civil law system is
derived mainly from the Roman Corpus Juris Civilus, (Body of Civil
Law), a collection of laws and legal interpretations compiled under
the East Roman (Byzantine) Emperor Justinian I between A.D. 528 and
565. The major feature of civil law systems is that the laws are
organized into systematic written codes. In civil law the sources
recognized as authoritative are principally legislation - especially
codifications in constitutions or statutes enacted by governments -
and secondarily, custom. The civil law systems in some countries are
based on more than one code.
Common Law - A type of legal system, often synonymous with "English
common law," which is the system of England and Wales in the UK, and
is also in force in approximately 80 countries formerly part of or
influenced by the former British Empire. English common law reflects
Biblical influences as well as remnants of law systems imposed by
early conquerors including the Romans, Anglo-Saxons, and Normans.
Some legal scholars attribute the formation of the English common
law system to King Henry II (r.1154-1189). Until the time of his
reign, laws customary among England's various manorial and
ecclesiastical (church) jurisdictions were administered locally.
Henry II established the king's court and designated that laws were
"common" to the entire English realm. The foundation of English
common law is "legal precedent" - referred to as stare decisis,
meaning "to stand by things decided." In the English common law
system, court judges are bound in their decisions in large part by
the rules and other doctrines developed - and supplemented over time
- by the judges of earlier English courts.
Customary Law - A type of legal system that serves as the basis of,
or has influenced, the present-day laws in approximately 40
countries - mostly in Africa, but some in the Pacific islands,
Europe, and the Near East. Customary law is also referred to as
"primitive law," "unwritten law," "indigenous law," and "folk law."
There is no single history of customary law such as that found in
Roman civil law, English common law, Islamic law, or the Napoleonic
Civil Code. The earliest systems of law in human society were
customary, and usually developed in small agrarian and
hunter-gatherer communities. As the term implies, customary law is
based upon the customs of a community. Common attributes of
customary legal systems are that they are seldom written down, they
embody an organized set of rules regulating social relations, and
they are agreed upon by members of the community. Although such law
systems include sanctions for law infractions, resolution tends to
be reconciliatory rather than punitive. A number of African states
practiced customary law many centuries prior to colonial influences.
Following colonization, such laws were written down and incorporated
to varying extents into the legal systems imposed by their colonial
powers.
European Union Law - A sub-discipline of international law known as
"supranational law" in which the rights of sovereign nations are
limited in relation to one another. Also referred to as the Law of
the European Union or Community Law, it is the unique and complex
legal system that operates in tandem with the laws of the 27 member
states of the European Union (EU). Similar to federal states, the EU
legal system ensures compliance from the member states because of
the Union's decentralized political nature. The European Court of
Justice (ECJ), established in 1952 by the Treaty of Paris, has been
largely responsible for the development of EU law. Fundamental
principles of European Union law include: subsidiarity - the notion
that issues be handled by the smallest, lowest, or least centralized
competent authority; proportionality - the EU may only act to the
extent needed to achieve its objectives; conferral - the EU is a
union of member states, and all its authorities are voluntarily
granted by its members; legal certainty - requires that legal rules
be clear and precise; and precautionary principle - a moral and
political principle stating that if an action or policy might cause
severe or irreversible harm to the public or to the environment, in
the absence of a scientific consensus that harm would not ensue, the
burden of proof falls on those who would advocate taking the action.
French Law - A type of civil law that is the legal system of France.
The French system also serves as the basis for, or is mixed with,
other legal systems in approximately 50 countries, notably in North
Africa, the Near East, and the French territories and dependencies.
French law is primarily codified or systematic written civil law.
Prior to the French Revolution (1789-1799), France had no single
national legal system. Laws in the northern areas of present-day
France were mostly local customs based on privileges and exemptions
granted by kings and feudal lords, while in the southern areas Roman
law predominated. The introduction of the Napoleonic Civil Code
during the reign of Napoleon I in the first decade of the 19th
century brought major reforms to the French legal system, many of
which remain part of France's current legal structure, though all
have been extensively amended or redrafted to address a modern
nation. French law distinguishes between "public law" and "private
law." Public law relates to government, the French Constitution,
public administration, and criminal law. Private law covers issues
between private citizens or corporations. The most recent changes to
the French legal system - introduced in the 1980s - were the
decentralization laws, which transferred authority from centrally
appointed government representatives to locally elected
representatives of the people.
International Law - The law of the international community, or the
body of customary rules and treaty rules accepted as legally binding
by states in their relations with each other. International law
differs from other legal systems in that it primarily concerns
sovereign political entities. There are three separate disciplines
of international law: public international law, which governs the
relationship between provinces and international entities and
includes treaty law, law of the sea, international criminal law, and
international humanitarian law; private international law, which
addresses legal jurisdiction; and supranational law - a legal
framework wherein countries are bound by regional agreements in
which the laws of the member countries are held inapplicable when in
conflict with supranational laws. At present the European Union is
the only entity under a supranational legal system. The term
"international law" was coined by Jeremy Bentham in 1780 in his
Principles of Morals and Legislation, though laws governing
relations between states have been recognized from very early times
(many centuries B.C.). Modern international law developed alongside
the emergence and growth of the European nation-states beginning in
the early 16th century. Other factors that influenced the
development of international law included the revival of legal
studies, the growth of international trade, and the practice of
exchanging emissaries and establishing legations. The sources of
International law are set out in Article 38-1 of the Statute of the
International Court of Justice within the UN Charter.
Islamic Law - The most widespread type of religious law, it is the
legal system enforced in over 30 countries, particularly in the Near
East, but also in Central and South Asia, Africa, and Indonesia. In
many countries Islamic law operates in tandem with a civil law
system. Islamic law is embodied in the sharia, an Arabic word
meaning "the right path." Sharia covers all aspects of public and
private life and organizes them into five categories: obligatory,
recommended, permitted, disliked, and forbidden. The primary sources
of sharia law are the Qur'an, believed by Muslims to be the word of
God revealed to the Prophet Muhammad by the angel Gabriel, and the
Sunnah, the teachings of the Prophet and his works. In addition to
these two primary sources, traditional Sunni Muslims recognize the
consensus of Muhammad's companions and Islamic jurists on certain
issues, called ijmas, and various forms of reasoning, including
analogy by legal scholars, referred to as qiyas. Shia Muslims reject
ijmas and qiyas as sources of sharia law.
Mixed Law - Also referred to as pluralistic law, mixed law consists
of elements of some or all of the other main types of legal systems
- civil, common, customary, and religious. The mixed legal systems
of a number of countries came about when colonial powers overlaid
their own legal systems upon colonized regions but retained elements
of the colonies' existing legal systems.
Napoleonic Civil Code - A type of civil law, referred to as the
Civil Code or Code Civil des Francais, forms part of the legal
system of France, and underpins the legal systems of Bolivia, Egypt,
Lebanon, Poland, and the US state of Louisiana. The Civil Code was
established under Napoleon I, enacted in 1804, and officially
designated the Code Napoleon in 1807. This legal system combined the
Teutonic civil law tradition of the northern provinces of France
with the Roman law tradition of the southern and eastern regions of
the country. The Civil Code bears similarities in its arrangement to
the Roman Body of Civil Law (see Civil Law above). As enacted in
1804, the Code addressed personal status, property, and the
acquisition of property. Codes added over the following six years
included civil procedures, commercial law, criminal law and
procedures, and a penal code.
Religious Law - A legal system which stems from the sacred texts of
religious traditions and in most cases professes to cover all
aspects of life as a seamless part of devotional obligations to a
transcendent, imminent, or deep philosophical reality. Implied as
the basis of religious law is the concept of unalterability, because
the word of God cannot be amended or legislated against by judges or
governments. However, a detailed legal system generally requires
human elaboration. The main types of religious law are sharia in
Islam, halakha in Judaism, and canon law in some Christian groups.
Sharia is the most widespread religious legal system (see Islamic
Law), and is the sole system of law for countries including Iran,
the Maldives, and Saudi Arabia. No country is fully governed by
halakha, but Jewish people may decide to settle disputes through
Jewish courts and be bound by their rulings. Canon law is not a
divine law as such because it is not found in revelation. It is
viewed instead as human law inspired by the word of God and applying
the demands of that revelation to the actual situation of the
church. Canon law regulates the internal ordering of the Roman
Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Anglican
Communion.
Roman Law - A type of civil law developed in ancient Rome and
practiced from the time of the city's founding (traditionally 753
B.C.) until the fall of the Western Empire in the 5th century A.D.
Roman law remained the legal system of the Byzantine (Eastern
Empire) until the fall of Constantinople in 1453. Preserved
fragments of the first legal text, known as the Law of the Twelve
Tables, dating from the 5th century B.C., contained specific
provisions designed to change the prevailing customary law. Early
Roman law was drawn from custom and statutes; later, during the time
of the empire, emperors asserted their authority as the ultimate
source of law. The basis for Roman laws was the idea that the exact
form - not the intention - of words or of actions produced legal
consequences. It was only in the late 6th century A.D. that a
comprehensive Roman code of laws was published (see Civil Law
above). Roman law served as the basis of law systems developed in a
number of continental European countries.
Roman-Dutch Law - A type of civil law based on Roman law as applied
in the Netherlands. Roman-Dutch law serves as the basis for legal
systems in seven African countries, as well as Guyana, Indonesia,
and Sri Lanka. This law system, which originated in the province of
Holland and expanded throughout the Netherlands (to be replaced by
the French Civil Code in 1809), was instituted in a number of
sub-Saharan African countries during the Dutch colonial period. The
Dutch jurist/philosopher Hugo Grotius was the first to attempt to
reduce Roman-Dutch civil law into a system in his Jurisprudence of
Holland (written 1619-20, commentary published 1621). The Dutch
historian/lawyer Simon van Leeuwen coined the term "Roman-Dutch law"
in 1652.
Spanish Law - A type of civil law, often referred to as the Spanish
Civil Code, it is the present legal system of Spain and is the basis
of legal systems in 12 countries mostly in Central and South
America, but also in southwestern Europe, northern and western
Africa, and southeastern Asia. The Spanish Civil Code reflects a
complex mixture of customary, Roman, Napoleonic, local, and modern
codified law. The laws of the Visigoth invaders of Spain in the 5th
to 7th centuries had the earliest major influence on Spanish legal
system development. The Christian Reconquest of Spain in the 11th
through 15th centuries witnessed the development of customary law,
which combined canon (religious) and Roman law. During several
centuries of Hapsburg and Bourbon rule, systematic recompilations of
the existing national legal system were attempted, but these often
conflicted with local and regional customary civil laws. Legal
system development for most of the 19th century concentrated on
formulating a national civil law system, which was finally enacted
in 1889 as the Spanish Civil Code. Several sections of the code have
been revised, the most recent of which are the penal code in 1989
and the judiciary code in 2001. The Spanish Civil Code separates
public and private law. Public law includes constitutional law,
administrative law, criminal law, process law, financial and tax
law, and international public law. Private law includes civil law,
commercial law, labor law, and international private law.
United States Law - A type of common law, which is the basis of the
legal system of the United States and that of its island possessions
in the Caribbean and the Pacific. This legal system has several
layers, more possibly than in most other countries, and is due in
part to the division between federal and state law. The United
States was founded not as one nation but as a union of 13 colonies,
each claiming independence from the British Crown. The US
Constitution, implemented in 1789, began shifting power away from
the states and toward the federal government, though the states
today retain substantial legal authority. US law draws its authority
from four sources: constitutional law, statutory law, administrative
regulations, and case law. Constitutional law is based on the US
Constitution and serves as the supreme federal law. Taken together
with those of the state constitutions, these documents outline the
general structure of the federal and state governments and provide
the rules and limits of power. US statutory law is legislation
enacted by the US Congress and is codified in the United States
Code. The 50 state legislatures have similar authority to enact
state statutes. Administrative law is the authority delegated to
federal and state executive agencies. Case law, also referred to as
common law, covers areas where constitutional or statutory law is
lacking. Case law is a collection of judicial decisions, customs,
and general principles that began in England centuries ago, that
were adopted in America at the time of the Revolution, and that
continue to develop today.



Legislative branch


This entry contains information on the structure (unicameral,
bicameral, tricameral), formal name, number of seats, and term of
office. Elections includes the nature of the election process or
accession to power, date of the last election, and date of the next
election. Election results includes the percent of vote and/or
number of seats held by each party in the last election.



Life expectancy at birth


This entry contains the average number of years to be lived by a
group of people born in the same year, if mortality at each age
remains constant in the future. The entry includes total population
as well as the male and female components. Life expectancy at birth
is also a measure of overall quality of life in a country and
summarizes the mortality at all ages. It can also be thought of as
indicating the potential return on investment in human capital and
is necessary for the calculation of various actuarial measures.



Literacy


This entry includes a definition of literacy and Census Bureau
percentages for the total population, males, and females. There are
no universal definitions and standards of literacy. Unless otherwise
specified, all rates are based on the most common definition - the
ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing the
standards that individual countries use to assess the ability to
read and write is beyond the scope of the Factbook. Information on
literacy, while not a perfect measure of educational results, is
probably the most easily available and valid for international
comparisons. Low levels of literacy, and education in general, can
impede the economic development of a country in the current rapidly
changing, technology-driven world.



Location


This entry identifies the country's regional location, neighboring
countries, and adjacent bodies of water.



M




Major infectious diseases


This entry lists major infectious diseases likely to be encountered
in countries where the risk of such diseases is assessed to be very
high as compared to the United States. These infectious diseases
represent risks to US government personnel traveling to the
specified country for a period of less than three years. The degree
of risk is assessed by considering the foreign nature of these
infectious diseases, their severity, and the probability of being
affected by the diseases present. The diseases listed do not
necessarily represent the total disease burden experienced by the
local population.
The risk to an individual traveler varies considerably by the
specific location, visit duration, type of activities, type of
accommodations, time of year, and other factors. Consultation with a
travel medicine physician is needed to evaluate individual risk and
recommend appropriate preventive measures such as vaccines.
Diseases are organized into the following six exposure categories
shown in italics and listed in typical descending order of risk.
Note: The sequence of exposure categories listed in individual
country entries may vary according to local conditions.
food or waterborne diseases acquired through eating or drinking on
the local economy:
Hepatitis A - viral disease that interferes with the functioning of
the liver; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated
with fecal matter, principally in areas of poor sanitation; victims
exhibit fever, jaundice, and diarrhea; 15% of victims will
experience prolonged symptoms over 6-9 months; vaccine available.
Hepatitis E - water-borne viral disease that interferes with the
functioning of the liver; most commonly spread through fecal
contamination of drinking water; victims exhibit jaundice, fatigue,
abdominal pain, and dark colored urine.
Typhoid fever - bacterial disease spread through contact with food
or water contaminated by fecal matter or sewage; victims exhibit
sustained high fevers; left untreated, mortality rates can reach 20%.
vectorborne diseases acquired through the bite of an infected
arthropod:
Malaria - caused by single-cell parasitic protozoa Plasmodium;
transmitted to humans via the bite of the female Anopheles mosquito;
parasites multiply in the liver attacking red blood cells resulting
in cycles of fever, chills, and sweats accompanied by anemia; death
due to damage to vital organs and interruption of blood supply to
the brain; endemic in 100, mostly tropical, countries with 90% of
cases and the majority of 1.5-2.5 million estimated annual deaths
occurring in sub-Saharan Africa.
Dengue fever - mosquito-borne (Aedes aegypti) viral disease
associated with urban environments; manifests as sudden onset of
fever and severe headache; occasionally produces shock and
hemorrhage leading to death in 5% of cases.
Yellow fever - mosquito-borne viral disease; severity ranges from
influenza-like symptoms to severe hepatitis and hemorrhagic fever;
occurs only in tropical South America and sub-Saharan Africa, where
most cases are reported; fatality rate is less than 20%.
Japanese Encephalitis - mosquito-borne (Culex tritaeniorhynchus)
viral disease associated with rural areas in Asia; acute
encephalitis can progress to paralysis, coma, and death; fatality
rates 30%.
African Trypanosomiasis - caused by the parasitic protozoa
Trypanosoma; transmitted to humans via the bite of bloodsucking
Tsetse flies; infection leads to malaise and irregular fevers and,
in advanced cases when the parasites invade the central nervous
system, coma and death; endemic in 36 countries of sub-Saharan
Africa; cattle and wild animals act as reservoir hosts for the
parasites.
Cutaneous Leishmaniasis - caused by the parasitic protozoa
leishmania; transmitted to humans via the bite of sandflies; results
in skin lesions that may become chronic; endemic in 88 countries;
90% of cases occur in Iran, Afghanistan, Syria, Saudi Arabia,
Brazil, and Peru; wild and domesticated animals as well as humans
can act as reservoirs of infection.
Plague - bacterial disease transmitted by fleas normally associated
with rats; person-to-person airborne transmission also possible;
recent plague epidemics occurred in areas of Asia, Africa, and South
America associated with rural areas or small towns and villages;
manifests as fever, headache, and painfully swollen lymph nodes;
disease progresses rapidly and without antibiotic treatment leads to
pneumonic form with a death rate in excess of 50%.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever - tick-borne viral disease;
infection may also result from exposure to infected animal blood or
tissue; geographic distribution includes Africa, Asia, the Middle
East, and Eastern Europe; sudden onset of fever, headache, and
muscle aches followed by hemorrhaging in the bowels, urine, nose,
and gums; mortality rate is approximately 30%.
Rift Valley fever - viral disease affecting domesticated animals and
humans; transmission is by mosquito and other biting insects;
infection may also occur through handling of infected meat or
contact with blood; geographic distribution includes eastern and
southern Africa where cattle and sheep are raised; symptoms are
generally mild with fever and some liver abnormalities, but the
disease may progress to hemorrhagic fever, encephalitis, or ocular
disease; fatality rates are low at about 1% of cases.
Chikungunya - mosquito-borne (Aedes aegypti) viral disease
associated with urban environments, similar to Dengue Fever;
characterized by sudden onset of fever, rash, and severe joint pain
usually lasting 3-7 days, some cases result in persistent arthritis.
water contact diseases acquired through swimming or wading in
freshwater lakes, streams, and rivers:
Leptospirosis - bacterial disease that affects animals and humans;
infection occurs through contact with water, food, or soil
contaminated by animal urine; symptoms include high fever, severe
headache, vomiting, jaundice, and diarrhea; untreated, the disease
can result in kidney damage, liver failure, meningitis, or
respiratory distress; fatality rates are low but left untreated
recovery can take months.
Schistosomiasis - caused by parasitic trematode flatworm
Schistosoma; fresh water snails act as intermediate host and release
larval form of parasite that penetrates the skin of people exposed
to contaminated water; worms mature and reproduce in the blood
vessels, liver, kidneys, and intestines releasing eggs, which become
trapped in tissues triggering an immune response; may manifest as
either urinary or intestinal disease resulting in decreased work or
learning capacity; mortality, while generally low, may occur in
advanced cases usually due to bladder cancer; endemic in 74
developing countries with 80% of infected people living in
sub-Saharan Africa; humans act as the reservoir for this parasite.
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease acquired through inhalation
of aerosols contaminated with rodent urine:
Lassa fever - viral disease carried by rats of the genus Mastomys;
endemic in portions of West Africa; infection occurs through direct
contact with or consumption of food contaminated by rodent urine or
fecal matter containing virus particles; fatality rate can reach 50%
in epidemic outbreaks.
respiratory disease acquired through close contact with an
infectious person:
Meningococcal meningitis - bacterial disease causing an inflammation
of the lining of the brain and spinal cord; one of the most
important bacterial pathogens is Neisseria meningitidis because of
its potential to cause epidemics; symptoms include stiff neck, high
fever, headaches, and vomiting; bacteria are transmitted from person
to person by respiratory droplets and facilitated by close and
prolonged contact resulting from crowded living conditions, often
with a seasonal distribution; death occurs in 5-15% of cases,
typically within 24-48 hours of onset of symptoms; highest burden of
meningococcal disease occurs in the hyperendemic region of
sub-Saharan Africa known as the "Meningitis Belt" which stretches
from Senegal east to Ethiopia.
animal contact disease acquired through direct contact with local
animals:
Rabies - viral disease of mammals usually transmitted through the
bite of an infected animal, most commonly dogs; virus affects the
central nervous system causing brain alteration and death; symptoms
initially are non-specific fever and headache progressing to
neurological symptoms; death occurs within days of the onset of
symptoms.



Manpower available for military service


This entry gives the number of males and females falling in the
military age range for a country (defined as being ages 16-49) and
assumes that every individual is fit to serve.



Manpower fit for military service


This entry gives the number of males and females falling in the
military age range for a country (defined as being ages 16-49) and
who are not otherwise disqualified for health reasons; accounts for
the health situation in the country and provides a more realistic
estimate of the actual number fit to serve.



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually


This entry gives the number of males and females entering the
military manpower pool (i.e., reaching age 16) in any given year and
is a measure of the availability of military-age young adults.



Map references


This entry includes the name of the Factbook reference map on which
a country may be found. Note that boundary representations on these
maps are not necessarily authoritative. The entry on Geographic
coordinates may be helpful in finding some smaller countries.



Maritime claims


This entry includes the following claims, the definitions of which
are excerpted from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea (UNCLOS), which alone contains the full and definitive
descriptions:
territorial sea - the sovereignty of a coastal state extends beyond
its land territory and internal waters to an adjacent belt of sea,
described as the territorial sea in the UNCLOS (Part II); this
sovereignty extends to the air space over the territorial sea as
well as its underlying seabed and subsoil; every state has the right
to establish the breadth of its territorial sea up to a limit not
exceeding 12 nautical miles; the normal baseline for measuring the
breadth of the territorial sea is the mean low-water line along the
coast as marked on large-scale charts officially recognized by the
coastal state; the UNCLOS describes specific rules for archipelagic
states.
contiguous zone - according to the UNCLOS (Article 33), this is a
zone contiguous to a coastal state's territorial sea, over which it
may exercise the control necessary to: prevent infringement of its
customs, fiscal, immigration, or sanitary laws and regulations
within its territory or territorial sea; punish infringement of the
above laws and regulations committed within its territory or
territorial sea; the contiguous zone may not extend beyond 24
nautical miles from the baselines from which the breadth of the
territorial sea is measured (e.g. the US has claimed a 12-nautical
mile contiguous zone in addition to its 12-nautical mile territorial
sea).
exclusive economic zone (EEZ) - the UNCLOS (Part V) defines the EEZ
as a zone beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea in which a
coastal state has: sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring and
exploiting, conserving and managing the natural resources, whether
living or non-living, of the waters superjacent to the seabed and of
the seabed and its subsoil, and with regard to other activities for
the economic exploitation and exploration of the zone, such as the
production of energy from the water, currents, and winds;
jurisdiction with regard to the establishment and use of artificial
islands, installations, and structures; marine scientific research;
the protection and preservation of the marine environment; the outer
limit of the exclusive economic zone shall not exceed 200 nautical
miles from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial
sea is measured.
continental shelf - the UNCLOS (Article 76) defines the continental
shelf of a coastal state as comprising the seabed and subsoil of the
submarine areas that extend beyond its territorial sea throughout
the natural prolongation of its land territory to the outer edge of
the continental margin, or to a distance of 200 nautical miles from
the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is
measured where the outer edge of the continental margin does not
extend up to that distance; the continental margin comprises the
submerged prolongation of the landmass of the coastal state, and
consists of the seabed and subsoil of the shelf, the slope and the
rise; wherever the continental margin extends beyond 200 nautical
miles from the baseline, coastal states may extend their claim to a
distance not to exceed 350 nautical miles from the baseline or 100
nautical miles from the 2500 meter isobath; it does not include the
deep ocean floor with its oceanic ridges or the subsoil thereof.
exclusive fishing zone - while this term is not used in the UNCLOS,
some states (e.g., the United Kingdom) have chosen not to claim an
EEZ, but rather to claim jurisdiction over the living resources off
their coast; in such cases, the term exclusive fishing zone is often
used; the breadth of this zone is normally the same as the EEZ or
200 nautical miles.



Market value of publicly traded shares


This entry gives the value of shares issued by publicly traded
companies at a price determined in the national stock markets on the
final day of the period indicated. It is simply the latest price per
share multiplied by the total number of outstanding shares,
cumulated over all companies listed on the particular exchange.



Median age


This entry is the age that divides a population into two numerically
equal groups; that is, half the people are younger than this age and
half are older. It is a single index that summarizes the age
distribution of a population. Currently, the median age ranges from
a low of about 15 in Uganda and Gaza Strip to 40 or more in several
European countries and Japan. See the entry for "Age structure" for
the importance of a young versus an older age structure and, by
implication, a low versus a higher median age.



Merchant marine


Merchant marine may be defined as all ships engaged in the carriage
of goods; or all commercial vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary
ships), which excludes tugs, fishing vessels, offshore oil rigs,
etc. This entry contains information in four fields - total, ships
by type, foreign-owned, and registered in other countries.
Total includes the number of ships (1,000 GRT or over), total DWT
for those ships, and total GRT for those ships. DWT or dead weight
tonnage is the total weight of cargo, plus bunkers, stores, etc.,
that a ship can carry when immersed to the appropriate load line.
GRT or gross register tonnage is a figure obtained by measuring the
entire sheltered volume of a ship available for cargo and passengers
and converting it to tons on the basis of 100 cubic feet per ton;
there is no stable relationship between GRT and DWT.
Ships by type includes a listing of barge carriers, bulk cargo
ships, cargo ships, chemical tankers, combination bulk carriers,
combination ore/oil carriers, container ships, liquefied gas
tankers, livestock carriers, multifunctional large-load carriers,
petroleum tankers, passenger ships, passenger/cargo ships, railcar
carriers, refrigerated cargo ships, roll-on/roll-off cargo ships,
short-sea passenger ships, specialized tankers, and vehicle carriers.
Foreign-owned are ships that fly the flag of one country but belong
to owners in another.
Registered in other countries are ships that belong to owners in one
country but fly the flag of another.

Military


This category includes the entries dealing with a country's military
structure, manpower, and expenditures.



Military - note


This entry includes miscellaneous military information of
significance not included elsewhere.



Military branches


This entry lists the service branches subordinate to defense
ministries or the equivalent (typically ground, naval, air, and
marine forces).



Military expenditures


This entry gives spending on defense programs for the most recent
year available as a percent of gross domestic product (GDP); the GDP
is calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in terms of
purchasing power parity (PPP).



Military service age and obligation


This entry gives the required ages for voluntary or conscript
military service and the length of service obligation.

Money figures


All money figures are expressed in contemporaneous US dollars unless
otherwise indicated.



N




National anthem


A generally patriotic musical composition - usually in the form of a
song or hymn of praise - that evokes and eulogizes the history,
traditions, or struggles of a nation or its people. National anthems
can be officially recognized as a national song by a country's
constitution or by an enacted law, or simply by tradition. Although
most anthems contain lyrics, some do not.



National holiday


This entry gives the primary national day of celebration - usually
independence day.



Nationality


This entry provides the identifying terms for citizens - noun and
adjective.



Natural gas - consumption


This entry is the total natural gas consumed in cubic meters (cu m).
The discrepancy between the amount of natural gas produced and/or
imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the
omission of stock changes and other complicating factors.



Natural gas - exports


This entry is the total natural gas exported in cubic meters (cu m).



Natural gas - imports


This entry is the total natural gas imported in cubic meters (cu m).



Natural gas - production


This entry is the total natural gas produced in cubic meters (cu m).
The discrepancy between the amount of natural gas produced and/or
imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the
omission of stock changes and other complicating factors.



Natural gas - proved reserves


This entry is the stock of proved reserves of natural gas in cubic
meters (cu m). Proved reserves are those quantities of natural gas,
which, by analysis of geological and engineering data, can be
estimated with a high degree of confidence to be commercially
recoverable from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and
under current economic conditions.



Natural hazards


This entry lists potential natural disasters. For countries where
volcanic activity is common, a volcanism subfield highlights
historically active volcanoes.



Natural resources


This entry lists a country's mineral, petroleum, hydropower, and
other resources of commercial importance, such as rare earth
elements (REEs).



Net migration rate


This entry includes the figure for the difference between the number
of persons entering and leaving a country during the year per 1,000
persons (based on midyear population). An excess of persons entering
the country is referred to as net immigration (e.g., 3.56
migrants/1,000 population); an excess of persons leaving the country
as net emigration (e.g., -9.26 migrants/1,000 population). The net
migration rate indicates the contribution of migration to the
overall level of population change. The net migration rate does not
distinguish between economic migrants, refugees, and other types of
migrants nor does it distinguish between lawful migrants and
undocumented migrants.



O




Oil - consumption


This entry is the total oil consumed in barrels per day (bbl/day).
The discrepancy between the amount of oil produced and/or imported
and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the omission of
stock changes, refinery gains, and other complicating factors.



Oil - exports


This entry is the total oil exported in barrels per day (bbl/day),
including both crude oil and oil products.



Oil - imports


This entry is the total oil imported in barrels per day (bbl/day),
including both crude oil and oil products.



Oil - production


This entry is the total oil produced in barrels per day (bbl/day).
The discrepancy between the amount of oil produced and/or imported
and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the omission of
stock changes, refinery gains, and other complicating factors.



Oil - proved reserves


This entry is the stock of proved reserves of crude oil in barrels
(bbl). Proved reserves are those quantities of petroleum which, by
analysis of geological and engineering data, can be estimated with a
high degree of confidence to be commercially recoverable from a
given date forward, from known reservoirs and under current economic
conditions.



P


People


This category includes the entries dealing with the characteristics
of the people and their society.



People - note


This entry includes miscellaneous demographic information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Personal Names - Capitalization


The Factbook capitalizes the surname or family name of individuals
for the convenience of our users who are faced with a world of
different cultures and naming conventions. The need for
capitalization, bold type, underlining, italics, or some other
indicator of the individual's surname is apparent in the following
examples: MAO Zedong, Fidel CASTRO Ruz, George W. BUSH, and TUNKU
SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam
Shah. By knowing the surname, a short form without all capital
letters can be used with confidence as in President Castro, Chairman
Mao, President Bush, or Sultan Tunku Salahuddin. The same system of
capitalization is extended to the names of leaders with surnames
that are not commonly used such as Queen ELIZABETH II. For
Vietnamese names, the given name is capitalized because officials
are referred to by their given name rather than by their surname.
For example, the president of Vietnam is Tran Duc LUONG. His surname
is Tran, but he is referred to by his given name - President LUONG.

Personal Names - Spelling


The romanization of personal names in the Factbook normally follows
the same transliteration system used by the US Board on Geographic
Names for spelling place names. At times, however, a foreign leader
expressly indicates a preference for, or the media or official
documents regularly use, a romanized spelling that differs from the
transliteration derived from the US Government standard. In such
cases, the Factbook uses the alternative spelling.

Personal Names - Titles


The Factbook capitalizes any valid title (or short form of it)
immediately preceding a person's name. A title standing alone is not
capitalized. Examples: President PUTIN and President BUSH are chiefs
of state. In Russia, the president is chief of state and the premier
is the head of the government, while in the US, the president is
both chief of state and head of government.

Petroleum


See entries under Oil.

Petroleum products


See entries under Oil.



Pipelines


This entry gives the lengths and types of pipelines for transporting
products like natural gas, crude oil, or petroleum products.

Piracy


Piracy is defined by the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea as any illegal act of violence, detention, or depredation
directed against a ship, aircraft, persons, or property in a place
outside the jurisdiction of any State. Such criminal acts committed
in the territorial waters of a littoral state are generally
considered to be armed robbery against ships. Information on piracy
may be found, where applicable, in the Transportation - note.



Political parties and leaders


This entry includes a listing of significant political organizations
and their leaders.



Political pressure groups and leaders


This entry includes a listing of a country's political, social,
labor, or religious organizations that are involved in politics, or
that exert political pressure, but whose leaders do not stand for
legislative election. International movements or organizations are
generally not listed.



Population


This entry gives an estimate from the US Bureau of the Census based
on statistics from population censuses, vital statistics
registration systems, or sample surveys pertaining to the recent
past and on assumptions about future trends. The total population
presents one overall measure of the potential impact of the country
on the world and within its region. Note: Starting with the 1993
Factbook, demographic estimates for some countries (mostly African)
have explicitly taken into account the effects of the growing impact
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. These countries are currently: The
Bahamas, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon,
Ghana, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.



Population below poverty line


National estimates of the percentage of the population falling below
the poverty line are based on surveys of sub-groups, with the
results weighted by the number of people in each group. Definitions
of poverty vary considerably among nations. For example, rich
nations generally employ more generous standards of poverty than
poor nations.



Population growth rate


The average annual percent change in the population, resulting from
a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the balance of
migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be positive or
negative. The growth rate is a factor in determining how great a
burden would be imposed on a country by the changing needs of its
people for infrastructure (e.g., schools, hospitals, housing,
roads), resources (e.g., food, water, electricity), and jobs. Rapid
population growth can be seen as threatening by neighboring
countries.



Ports and terminals


This entry lists major ports and terminals primarily on the basis of
the amount of cargo tonnage shipped through the facilities on an
annual basis. In some instances, the number of containers handled or
ship visits were also considered.



Public debt


This entry records the cumulative total of all government borrowings
less repayments that are denominated in a country's home currency.
Public debt should not be confused with external debt, which
reflects the foreign currency liabilities of both the private and
public sector and must be financed out of foreign exchange earnings.



R




Railways


This entry states the total route length of the railway network and
of its component parts by gauge: broad, standard, narrow, and dual.
Other gauges are listed under note.

Rare earth elements


Rare earth elements or REEs are 17 chemical elements that are
critical in many of today's high-tech industries. They include
lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, promethium, samarium,
europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium,
ytterbium, lutetium, scandium, and yttrium. Typical applications for
REEs include batteries in hybrid cars, fiber optic cables, flat
panel displays, and permanent magnets, as well as some defense and
medical products.

Reference maps


This section includes world and regional maps.



Refugees and internally displaced persons


This entry includes those persons residing in a country as refugees
or internally displaced persons (IDPs). The definition of a refugee
according to a United Nations Convention is "a person who is outside
his/her country of nationality or habitual residence; has a
well-founded fear of persecution because of his/her race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group or political
opinion; and is unable or unwilling to avail himself/herself of the
protection of that country, or to return there, for fear of
persecution." The UN established the Office of the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in 1950 to handle refugee matters
worldwide. The UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in
the Near East (UNRWA) has a different operational definition for a
Palestinian refugee: "a person whose normal place of residence was
Palestine during the period 1 June 1946 to 15 May 1948 and who lost
both home and means of livelihood as a result of the 1948 conflict."
However, UNHCR also assists some 400,000 Palestinian refugees not
covered under the UNRWA definition. The term "internally displaced
person" is not specifically covered in the UN Convention; it is used
to describe people who have fled their homes for reasons similar to
refugees, but who remain within their own national territory and are
subject to the laws of that state.



Religions


This entry is an ordered listing of religions by adherents starting
with the largest group and sometimes includes the percent of total
population. The core characteristics and beliefs of the world's
major religions are described below.
Baha'i - Founded by Mirza Husayn-Ali (known as Baha'u'llah) in Iran
in 1852, Baha'i faith emphasizes monotheism and believes in one
eternal transcendent God. Its guiding focus is to encourage the
unity of all peoples on the earth so that justice and peace may be
achieved on earth. Baha'i revelation contends the prophets of major
world religions reflect some truth or element of the divine,
believes all were manifestations of God given to specific
communities in specific times, and that Baha'u'llah is an additional
prophet meant to call all humankind. Bahais are an open community,
located worldwide, with the greatest concentration of believers in
South Asia.
Buddhism - Religion or philosophy inspired by the 5th century B.C.
teachings of Siddhartha Gautama (also known as Gautama Buddha "the
enlightened one"). Buddhism focuses on the goal of spiritual
enlightenment centered on an understanding of Gautama Buddha's Four
Noble Truths on the nature of suffering, and on the Eightfold Path
of spiritual and moral practice, to break the cycle of suffering of
which we are a part. Buddhism ascribes to a karmic system of
rebirth. Several schools and sects of Buddhism exist, differing
often on the nature of the Buddha, the extent to which enlightenment
can be achieved - for one or for all, and by whom - religious orders
or laity.
Basic Groupings
   Theravada Buddhism: The oldest Buddhist school, Theravada is
practiced mostly in Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, and Thailand,
with minority representation elsewhere in Asia and the West.
Theravadans follow the Pali Canon of Buddha's teachings, and believe
that one may escape the cycle of rebirth, worldly attachment, and
suffering for oneself; this process may take one or several
lifetimes.
   Mahayana Buddhism, including subsets Zen and Tibetan Buddhism:
Forms of Mahayana Buddhism are common in East Asia and Tibet, and
parts of the West. Mahayanas have additional scriptures beyond the
Pali Canon and believe the Buddha is eternal and still teaching.
Unlike Theravada Buddhism, Mahayana schools maintain the
Buddha-nature is present in all beings and all will ultimately
achieve enlightenment.
Christianity - Descending from Judaism, Christianity's central
belief maintains Jesus of Nazareth is the promised messiah of the
Hebrew Scriptures, and that his life, death, and resurrection are
salvific for the world. Christianity is one of the three
monotheistic Abrahamic faiths, along with Islam and Judaism, which
traces its spiritual lineage to Abraham of the Hebrew Scriptures.
Its sacred texts include the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament (or
the Christian Gospels).
Basic Groupings
   Catholicism (or Roman Catholicism): This is the oldest
established western Christian church and the world's largest single
religious body. It is supranational, and recognizes a hierarchical
structure with the Pope, or Bishop of Rome, as its head, located at
the Vatican. Catholics believe the Pope is the divinely ordered head
of the Church from a direct spiritual legacy of Jesus' apostle
Peter. Catholicism is comprised of 23 particular Churches, or Rites
- one Western (Roman or Latin-Rite) and 22 Eastern. The Latin Rite
is by far the largest, making up about 98% of Catholic membership.
Eastern-Rite Churches, such as the Maronite Church and the Ukrainian
Catholic Church, are in communion with Rome although they preserve
their own worship traditions and their immediate hierarchy consists
of clergy within their own rite. The Catholic Church has a
comprehensive theological and moral doctrine specified for believers
in its catechism, which makes it unique among most forms of
Christianity.
   Mormonism (including the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints): Originating in 1830 in the United States under Joseph
Smith, Mormonism is not characterized as a form of Protestant
Christianity because it claims additional revealed Christian
scriptures after the Hebrew Bible and New Testament. The Book of
Mormon maintains there was an appearance of Jesus in the New World
following the Christian account of his resurrection, and that the
Americas are uniquely blessed continents. Mormonism believes earlier
Christian traditions, such as the Roman Catholic, Orthodox, and
Protestant reform faiths, are apostasies and that Joseph Smith's
revelation of the Book of Mormon is a restoration of true
Christianity. Mormons have a hierarchical religious leadership
structure, and actively proselytize their faith; they are located
primarily in the Americas and in a number of other Western countries.
   Orthodox Christianity: The oldest established eastern form of
Christianity, the Holy Orthodox Church, has a ceremonial head in the
Bishop of Constantinople (Istanbul), also known as a Patriarch, but
its various regional forms (e.g., Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox,
Serbian Orthodox, Ukrainian Orthodox) are autocephalous (independent
of Constantinople's authority, and have their own Patriarchs).
Orthodox churches are highly nationalist and ethnic. The Orthodox
Christian faith shares many theological tenets with the Roman
Catholic Church, but diverges on some key premises and does not
recognize the governing authority of the Pope.
   Protestant Christianity: Protestant Christianity originated in
the 16th century as an attempt to reform Roman Catholicism's
practices, dogma, and theology. It encompasses several forms or
denominations which are extremely varied in structure, beliefs,
relationship to state, clergy, and governance. Many protestant
theologies emphasize the primary role of scripture in their faith,
advocating individual interpretation of Christian texts without the
mediation of a final religious authority such as the Roman Pope. The
oldest Protestant Christianities include Lutheranism, Calvinism
(Presbyterians), and Anglican Christianity (Episcopalians), which
have established liturgies, governing structure, and formal clergy.
Other variants on Protestant Christianity, including Pentecostal
movements and independent churches, may lack one or more of these
elements, and their leadership and beliefs are individualized and
dynamic.
Hinduism - Originating in the Vedic civilization of India (second
and first millennium B.C.), Hinduism is an extremely diverse set of
beliefs and practices with no single founder or religious authority.
Hinduism has many scriptures; the Vedas, the Upanishads, and the
Bhagavad-Gita are among some of the most important. Hindus may
worship one or many deities, usually with prayer rituals within
their own home. The most common figures of devotion are the gods
Vishnu, Shiva, and a mother goddess, Devi. Most Hindus believe the
soul, or atman, is eternal, and goes through a cycle of birth,
death, and rebirth (samsara) determined by one's positive or
negative karma, or the consequences of one's actions. The goal of
religious life is to learn to act so as to finally achieve
liberation (moksha) of one's soul, escaping the rebirth cycle.
Islam - The third of the monotheistic Abrahamic faiths, Islam
originated with the teachings of Muhammad in the 7th century.
Muslims believe Muhammad is the final of all religious prophets
(beginning with Abraham) and that the Qu'ran, which is the Islamic
scripture, was revealed to him by God. Islam derives from the word
submission, and obedience to God is a primary theme in this
religion. In order to live an Islamic life, believers must follow
the five pillars, or tenets, of Islam, which are the testimony of
faith (shahada), daily prayer (salah), giving alms (zakah), fasting
during Ramadan (sawm), and the pilgrimage to Mecca (hajj).
Basic Groupings
   The two primary branches of Islam are Sunni and Shia, which split
from each other over a religio-political leadership dispute about
the rightful successor to Muhammad. The Shia believe Muhammad's
cousin and son-in-law, Ali, was the only divinely ordained Imam
(religious leader), while the Sunni maintain the first three caliphs
after Muhammad were also legitimate authorities. In modern Islam,
Sunnis and Shia continue to have different views of acceptable
schools of Islamic jurisprudence, and who is a proper Islamic
religious authority. Islam also has an active mystical branch,
Sufism, with various Sunni and Shia subsets.
    Sunni Islam accounts for over 75% of the world's Muslim
population. It recognizes the Abu Bakr as the first caliph after
Muhammad. Sunni has four schools of Islamic doctrine and law -
Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali - which uniquely interpret the
Hadith, or recorded oral traditions of Muhammad. A Sunni Muslim may
elect to follow any one of these schools, as all are considered
equally valid.
    Shia Islam represents 10-20% of Muslims worldwide, and its
distinguishing feature is its reverence for Ali as an infallible,
divinely inspired leader, and as the first Imam of the Muslim
community after Muhammad. A majority of Shia are known as
"Twelvers," because they believe that the 11 familial successor
imams after Muhammad culminate in a 12th Imam (al-Mahdi) who is
hidden in the world and will reappear at its end to redeem the
righteous.
Variants
   Ismaili faith: A sect of Shia Islam, its adherents are also known
as "Seveners," because they believe that the rightful seventh Imam
in Islamic leadership was Isma'il, the elder son of Imam Jafar
al-Sadiq. Ismaili tradition awaits the return of the seventh Imam as
the Mahdi, or Islamic messianic figure. Ismailis are located in
various parts of the world, particularly South Asia and the Levant.
   Alawi faith: Another Shia sect of Islam, the name reflects
followers' devotion to the religious authority of Ali. Alawites are
a closed, secretive religious group who assert they are Shia
Muslims, although outside scholars speculate their beliefs may have
a syncretic mix with other faiths originating in the Middle East.
Alawis live mostly in Syria, Lebanon, and Turkey.
   Druze faith: A highly secretive tradition and a closed community
that derives from the Ismaili sect of Islam; its core beliefs are
thought to emphasize a combination of Gnostic principles believing
that the Fatimid caliph, al-Hakin, is the one who embodies the key
aspects of goodness of the universe, which are, the intellect, the
word, the soul, the preceder, and the follower. The Druze have a key
presence in Syria, Lebanon, and Israel.
Jainism - Originating in India, Jain spiritual philosophy believes
in an eternal human soul, the eternal universe, and a principle of
"the own nature of things." It emphasizes compassion for all living
things, seeks liberation of the human soul from reincarnation
through enlightenment, and values personal responsibility due to the
belief in the immediate consequences of one's behavior. Jain
philosophy teaches non-violence and prescribes vegetarianism for
monks and laity alike; its adherents are a highly influential
religious minority in Indian society.
Judaism - One of the first known monotheistic religions, likely
dating to between 2000-1500 B.C., Judaism is the native faith of the
Jewish people, based upon the belief in a covenant of responsibility
between a sole omnipotent creator God and Abraham, the patriarch of
Judaism's Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh. Divine revelation of principles
and prohibitions in the Hebrew Scriptures form the basis of Jewish
law, or halakhah, which is a key component of the faith. While there
are extensive traditions of Jewish halakhic and theological
discourse, there is no final dogmatic authority in the tradition.
Local communities have their own religious leadership. Modern
Judaism has three basic categories of faith: Orthodox, Conservative,
and Reform/Liberal. These differ in their views and observance of
Jewish law, with the Orthodox representing the most traditional
practice, and Reform/Liberal communities the most accommodating of
individualized interpretations of Jewish identity and faith.
Shintoism - A native animist tradition of Japan, Shinto practice is
based upon the premise that every being and object has its own
spirit or kami. Shinto practitioners worship several particular
kamis, including the kamis of nature, and families often have
shrines to their ancestors' kamis. Shintoism has no fixed tradition
of prayers or prescribed dogma, but is characterized by individual
ritual. Respect for the kamis in nature is a key Shinto value. Prior
to the end of World War II, Shinto was the state religion of Japan,
and bolstered the cult of the Japanese emperor.
Sikhism - Founded by the Guru Nanak (born 1469), Sikhism believes in
a non-anthropomorphic, supreme, eternal, creator God; centering
one's devotion to God is seen as a means of escaping the cycle of
rebirth. Sikhs follow the teachings of Nanak and nine subsequent
gurus. Their scripture, the Guru Granth Sahib - also known as the
Adi Granth - is considered the living Guru, or final authority of
Sikh faith and theology. Sikhism emphasizes equality of humankind
and disavows caste, class, or gender discrimination.
Taoism - Chinese philosophy or religion based upon Lao Tzu's Tao Te
Ching, which centers on belief in the Tao, or the way, as the flow
of the universe and the nature of things. Taoism encourages a
principle of non-force, or wu-wei, as the means to live harmoniously
with the Tao. Taoists believe the esoteric world is made up of a
perfect harmonious balance and nature, while in the manifest world -
particularly in the body - balance is distorted. The Three Jewels of
the Tao - compassion, simplicity, and humility - serve as the basis
for Taoist ethics.
Zoroastrianism - Originating from the teachings of Zoroaster in
about the 9th or 10th century B.C., Zoroastrianism may be the oldest
continuing creedal religion. Its key beliefs center on a
transcendent creator God, Ahura Mazda, and the concept of free will.
The key ethical tenets of Zoroastrianism expressed in its scripture,
the Avesta, are based on a dualistic worldview where one may prevent
chaos if one chooses to serve God and exercises good thoughts, good
words, and good deeds. Zoroastrianism is generally a closed religion
and members are almost always born to Zoroastrian parents. Prior to
the spread of Islam, Zoroastrianism dominated greater Iran. Today,
though a minority, Zoroastrians remain primarily in Iran, India, and
Pakistan.



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold


This entry gives the dollar value for the stock of all financial
assets that are available to the central monetary authority for use
in meeting a country's balance of payments needs as of the end-date
of the period specified. This category includes not only foreign
currency and gold, but also a country's holdings of Special Drawing
Rights in the International Monetary Fund, and its reserve position
in the Fund.



Roadways


This entry gives the total length of the road network and includes
the length of the paved and unpaved portions.



S




School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education)


School life expectancy (SLE) is the total number of years of
schooling (primary to tertiary) that a child can expect to receive,
assuming that the probability of his or her being enrolled in school
at any particular future age is equal to the current enrollment
ratio at that age. Caution must be maintained when utilizing this
indicator in international comparisons. For example, a year or grade
completed in one country is not necessarily the same in terms of
educational content or quality as a year or grade completed in
another country. SLE represents the expected number of years of
schooling that will be completed, including years spent repeating
one or more grades.



Sex ratio


This entry includes the number of males for each female in five age
groups - at birth, under 15 years, 15-64 years, 65 years and over,
and for the total population. Sex ratio at birth has recently
emerged as an indicator of certain kinds of sex discrimination in
some countries. For instance, high sex ratios at birth in some Asian
countries are now attributed to sex-selective abortion and
infanticide due to a strong preference for sons. This will affect
future marriage patterns and fertility patterns. Eventually, it
could cause unrest among young adult males who are unable to find
partners.



Stock of broad money


This entry covers all of "Narrow money," plus the total quantity of
time and savings deposits, credit union deposits, institutional
money market funds, short-term repurchase agreements between the
central bank and commercial deposit banks, and other large liquid
assets held by nonbank financial institutions, state and local
governments, nonfinancial public enterprises, and the private sector
of the economy. National currency units have been converted to US
dollars at the closing exchange rate for the date of the
information. Because of exchange rate movements, changes in money
stocks measured in national currency units may vary significantly
from those shown in US dollars, and caution is urged when making
comparisons over time in US dollars. In addition to serving as a
medium of exchange, broad money includes assets that are slightly
less liquid than narrow money and the assets tend to function as a
"store of value" - a means of holding wealth.



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad


This entry gives the cumulative US dollar value of all investments
in foreign countries made directly by residents - primarily
companies - of the home country, as of the end of the time period
indicated. Direct investment excludes investment through purchase of
shares.



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home


This entry gives the cumulative US dollar value of all investments
in the home country made directly by residents - primarily companies
- of other countries as of the end of the time period indicated.
Direct investment excludes investment through purchase of shares.



Stock of domestic credit


This entry is the total quantity of credit, denominated in the
domestic currency, provided by financial institutions to the central
bank, state and local governments, public non-financial
corporations, and the private sector. The national currency units
have been converted to US dollars at the closing exchange rate on
the date of the information.



Stock of narrow money


This entry, also know as "M1," comprises the total quantity of
currency in circulation (notes and coins) plus demand deposits
denominated in the national currency held by nonbank financial
institutions, state and local governments, nonfinancial public
enterprises, and the private sector of the economy, measured at a
specific point in time. National currency units have been converted
to US dollars at the closing exchange rate for the date of the
information. Because of exchange rate movements, changes in money
stocks measured in national currency units may vary significantly
from those shown in US dollars, and caution is urged when making
comparisons over time in US dollars. Narrow money consists of more
liquid assets than broad money and the assets generally function as
a "medium of exchange" for an economy.



Suffrage


This entry gives the age at enfranchisement and whether the right to
vote is universal or restricted.



T


Telephone numbers


All telephone numbers in The World Factbook consist of the country
code in brackets, the city or area code (where required) in
parentheses, and the local number. The one component that is not
presented is the international access code, which varies from
country to country. For example, an international direct dial
telephone call placed from the US to Madrid, Spain, would be as
follows: 011 [34] (1) 577-xxxx, where 011 is the international
access code for station-to-station calls; 01 is for calls other than
station-to-station calls, [34] is the country code for Spain, (1) is
the city code for Madrid, 577 is the local exchange, and xxxx is the
local telephone number. An international direct dial telephone call
placed from another country to the US would be as follows:
international access code + [1] (202) 939-xxxx, where [ 1] is the
country code for the US, (202) is the area code for Washington, DC,
939 is the local exchange, and xxxx is the local telephone number.



Telephone system


This entry includes a brief general assessment of the system with
details on the domestic and international components. The following
terms and abbreviations are used throughout the entry:
Arabsat - Arab Satellite Communications Organization (Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia).
Autodin - Automatic Digital Network (US Department of Defense).
CB - citizen's band mobile radio communications.
Cellular telephone system - the telephones in this system are radio
transceivers, with each instrument having its own private radio
frequency and sufficient radiated power to reach the booster station
in its area (cell), from which the telephone signal is fed to a
telephone exchange.
Central American Microwave System - a trunk microwave radio relay
system that links the countries of Central America and Mexico with
each other.
Coaxial cable - a multichannel communication cable consisting of a
central conducting wire, surrounded by and insulated from a
cylindrical conducting shell; a large number of telephone channels
can be made available within the insulated space by the use of a
large number of carrier frequencies.
Comsat - Communications Satellite Corporation (US).
DSN - Defense Switched Network (formerly Automatic Voice Network or
Autovon); basic general-purpose, switched voice network of the
Defense Communications System (US Department of Defense).
Eutelsat - European Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Paris).
Fiber-optic cable - a multichannel communications cable using a
thread of optical glass fibers as a transmission medium in which the
signal (voice, video, etc.) is in the form of a coded pulse of light.
GSM - a global system for mobile (cellular) communications devised
by the Groupe Special Mobile of the pan-European standardization
organization, Conference Europeanne des Posts et Telecommunications
(CEPT) in 1982.
HF - high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to 30,000-kHz
range.
Inmarsat - International Maritime Satellite Organization (London);
provider of global mobile satellite communications for commercial,
distress, and safety applications at sea, in the air, and on land.
Intelsat - International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Washington, DC).
Intersputnik - International Organization of Space Communications
(Moscow); first established in the former Soviet Union and the East
European countries, it is now marketing its services worldwide with
earth stations in North America, Africa, and East Asia.
Landline - communication wire or cable of any sort that is installed
on poles or buried in the ground.
Marecs - Maritime European Communications Satellite used in the
Inmarsat system on lease from the European Space Agency.
Marisat - satellites of the Comsat Corporation that participate in
the Inmarsat system.
Medarabtel - the Middle East Telecommunications Project of the
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) providing a modern
telecommunications network, primarily by microwave radio relay,
linking Algeria, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Saudi
Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen; it was initially
started in Morocco in 1970 by the Arab Telecommunications Union
(ATU) and was known at that time as the Middle East Mediterranean
Telecommunications Network.
Microwave radio relay - transmission of long distance telephone
calls and television programs by highly directional radio microwaves
that are received and sent on from one booster station to another on
an optical path.
NMT - Nordic Mobile Telephone; an analog cellular telephone system
that was developed jointly by the national telecommunications
authorities of the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
Norway, and Sweden).
Orbita - a Russian television service; also the trade name of a
packet-switched digital telephone network.
Radiotelephone communications - the two-way transmission and
reception of sounds by broadcast radio on authorized frequencies
using telephone handsets.
PanAmSat - PanAmSat Corporation (Greenwich, CT).
SAFE - South African Far East Cable
Satellite communication system - a communication system consisting
of two or more earth stations and at least one satellite that
provide long distance transmission of voice, data, and television;
the system usually serves as a trunk connection between telephone
exchanges; if the earth stations are in the same country, it is a
domestic system.
Satellite earth station - a communications facility with a microwave
radio transmitting and receiving antenna and required receiving and
transmitting equipment for communicating with satellites.
Satellite link - a radio connection between a satellite and an earth
station permitting communication between them, either one-way (down
link from satellite to earth station - television receive-only
transmission) or two-way (telephone channels).
SHF - super high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to
30,000-MHz range.
Shortwave - radio frequencies (from 1.605 to 30 MHz) that fall above
the commercial broadcast band and are used for communication over
long distances.
Solidaridad - geosynchronous satellites in Mexico's system of
international telecommunications in the Western Hemisphere.
Statsionar - Russia's geostationary system for satellite
telecommunications.
Submarine cable - a cable designed for service under water.
TAT - Trans-Atlantic Telephone; any of a number of high-capacity
submarine coaxial telephone cables linking Europe with North America.
Telefax - facsimile service between subscriber stations via the
public switched telephone network or the international Datel network.
Telegraph - a telecommunications system designed for unmodulated
electric impulse transmission.
Telex - a communication service involving teletypewriters connected
by wire through automatic exchanges.
Tropospheric scatter - a form of microwave radio transmission in
which the troposphere is used to scatter and reflect a fraction of
the incident radio waves back to earth; powerful, highly directional
antennas are used to transmit and receive the microwave signals;
reliable over-the-horizon communications are realized for distances
up to 600 miles in a single hop; additional hops can extend the
range of this system for very long distances.
Trunk network - a network of switching centers, connected by
multichannel trunk lines.
UHF - ultra high frequency; any radio frequency in the 300- to
3,000-MHz range.
VHF - very high frequency; any radio frequency in the 30- to 300-MHz
range.



Telephones - main lines in use


This entry gives the total number of main telephone lines in use.



Telephones - mobile cellular


This entry gives the total number of mobile cellular telephone
subscribers.

Terminology


Due to the highly structured nature of the Factbook database, some
collective generic terms have to be used. For example, the word
Country in the Country name entry refers to a wide variety of
dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and
other entities in addition to the traditional countries or
independent states. Military is also used as an umbrella term for
various civil defense, security, and defense activities in many
entries. The Independence entry includes the usual colonial
independence dates and former ruling states as well as other
significant nationhood dates such as the traditional founding date
or the date of unification, federation, confederation,
establishment, or state succession that are not strictly
independence dates. Dependent areas have the nature of their
dependency status noted in this same entry.



Terrain


This entry contains a brief description of the topography.

Time difference


This entry is expressed in The World Factbook in two ways. First, it
is stated as the difference in hours between the capital of an
entity and Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) during Standard Time.
Additionally, the difference in time between the capital of an
entity and that observed in Washington, D.C. is also provided. Note
that the time difference assumes both locations are simultaneously
observing Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time.

Time zones


Ten countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Kazakhstan,
Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Spain, and the United States) and the
island of Greenland observe more than one official time depending on
the number of designated time zones within their boundaries. An
illustration of time zones throughout the world and within countries
can be seen in the Standard Time Zones of the World map included in
the Reference Maps section of The World Factbook.



Total fertility rate


This entry gives a figure for the average number of children that
would be born per woman if all women lived to the end of their
childbearing years and bore children according to a given fertility
rate at each age. The total fertility rate (TFR) is a more direct
measure of the level of fertility than the crude birth rate, since
it refers to births per woman. This indicator shows the potential
for population change in the country. A rate of two children per
woman is considered the replacement rate for a population, resulting
in relative stability in terms of total numbers. Rates above two
children indicate populations growing in size and whose median age
is declining. Higher rates may also indicate difficulties for
families, in some situations, to feed and educate their children and
for women to enter the labor force. Rates below two children
indicate populations decreasing in size and growing older. Global
fertility rates are in general decline and this trend is most
pronounced in industrialized countries, especially Western Europe,
where populations are projected to decline dramatically over the
next 50 years.



Total renewable water resources


This entry provides the long-term average water availability for a
country in cubic kilometers of precipitation, recharged ground
water, and surface inflows from surrounding countries. The values
have been adjusted to account for overlap resulting from surface
flow recharge of groundwater sources. Total renewable water
resources provides the water total available to a country but does
not include water resource totals that have been reserved for
upstream or downstream countries through international agreements.
Note that these values are averages and do not accurately reflect
the total available in any given year. Annual available resources
can vary greatly due to short-term and long-term climatic and
weather variations.



Trafficking in persons


Trafficking in persons is modern-day slavery, involving victims who
are forced, defrauded, or coerced into labor or sexual exploitation.
The International Labor Organization (ILO), the UN agency charged
with addressing labor standards, employment, and social protection
issues, estimates that 12.3 million people worldwide are enslaved in
forced labor, bonded labor, forced child labor, sexual servitude,
and involuntary servitude at any given time. Human trafficking is a
multi-dimensional threat, depriving people of their human rights and
freedoms, risking global health, promoting social breakdown,
inhibiting development by depriving countries of their human
capital, and helping fuel the growth of organized crime. In 2000,
the US Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Act
(TVPA), reauthorized in 2003 and 2005, which provides tools for the
US to combat trafficking in persons, both domestically and abroad.
One of the law's key components is the creation of the US Department
of State's annual Trafficking in Persons Report, which assesses the
government response (i.e., the current situation) in some 150
countries with a significant number of victims trafficked across
their borders who are recruited, harbored, transported, provided, or
obtained for forced labor or sexual exploitation. Countries in the
annual report are rated in three tiers, based on government efforts
to combat trafficking. The countries identified in this entry are
those listed in the 2010 Trafficking in Persons Report as Tier 2
Watch List or Tier 3 based on the following tier rating definitions:
Tier 2 Watch List countries do not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking but are making
significant efforts to do so, and meet one of the following criteria:
1. they display high or significantly increasing number of victims,
2. they have failed to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat trafficking in persons, or,
3. they have committed to take action over the next year.
Tier 3 countries neither satisfy the minimum standards for the
elimination of trafficking nor demonstrate a significant effort to
do so. Countries in this tier are subject to potential
non-humanitarian and non-trade sanctions.

Transnational issues


This category includes four entries - Disputes - international,
Refugees and internally displaced persons, Trafficking in persons,
and Illicit drugs - that deal with current issues going beyond
national boundaries.

Transportation


This category includes the entries dealing with the means for
movement of people and goods.



Transportation - note


This entry includes miscellaneous transportation information of
significance not included elsewhere.



U




Unemployment rate


This entry contains the percent of the labor force that is without
jobs. Substantial underemployment might be noted.



Urbanization


This entry provides two measures of the degree of urbanization of a
population. The first, urban population, describes the percentage of
the total population living in urban areas, as defined by the
country. The second, rate of urbanization, describes the projected
average rate of change of the size of the urban population over the
given period of time. Additionally, the World entry includes a list
of the ten largest urban agglomerations. An urban agglomeration is
defined as comprising the city or town proper and also the suburban
fringe or thickly settled territory lying outside of, but adjacent
to, the boundaries of the city.

UTC (Coordinated Universal Time)


See entry for Coordinated Universal Time.



W




Waterways


This entry gives the total length of navigable rivers, canals, and
other inland bodies of water.

Weights and Measures


This information is presented in This information is presented in <a
href = "../appendix/appendix-g.html"Appendix G: Weights and Measures
and includes mathematical notations (mathematical powers and names),
metric interrelationships (prefix; symbol; length, weight, or
capacity; area; volume), and standard conversion factors.



Y


Years


All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless indicated
as fiscal year (FY). The calendar year is an accounting period of 12
months from 1 January to 31 December. The fiscal year is an
accounting period of 12 months other than 1 January to 31 December.





Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was complied from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates.



======================================================================



About :: History




A Brief History of Basic Intelligence and The World Factbook


The Intelligence Cycle is the process by which information is
acquired, converted into intelligence, and made available to
policymakers. Information is raw data from any source, data that may
be fragmentary, contradictory, unreliable, ambiguous, deceptive, or
wrong. Intelligence is information that has been collected,
integrated, evaluated, analyzed, and interpreted. Finished
intelligence is the final product of the Intelligence Cycle ready to
be delivered to the policymaker.


The three types of finished intelligence are: basic, current, and
estimative. Basic intelligence provides the fundamental and factual
reference material on a country or issue. Current intelligence
reports on new developments. Estimative intelligence judges probable
outcomes. The three are mutually supportive: basic intelligence is
the foundation on which the other two are constructed; current
intelligence continually updates the inventory of knowledge; and
estimative intelligence revises overall interpretations of country
and issue prospects for guidance of basic and current intelligence.
The World Factbook, The President's Daily Brief, and the National
Intelligence Estimates are examples of the three types of finished
intelligence.


The United States has carried on foreign intelligence activities
since the days of George Washington but only since World War II have
they been coordinated on a government-wide basis. Three programs
have highlighted the development of coordinated basic intelligence
since that time: (1) the Joint Army Navy Intelligence Studies
(JANIS), (2) the National Intelligence Survey (NIS), and (3)The
World Factbook .


During World War II, intelligence consumers realized that the
production of basic intelligence by different components of the US
Government resulted in a great duplication of effort and conflicting
information. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 brought
home to leaders in Congress and the executive branch the need for
integrating departmental reports to national policymakers. Detailed
and coordinated information was needed not only on such major powers
as Germany and Japan, but also on places of little previous
interest. In the Pacific Theater, for example, the Navy and Marines
had to launch amphibious operations against many islands about which
information was unconfirmed or nonexistent. Intelligence authorities
resolved that the United States should never again be caught
unprepared.


In 1943, Gen. George B. Strong (G-2), Adm. H. C. Train (Office of
Naval Intelligence - ONI), and Gen. William J. Donovan (Director of
the Office of Strategic Services - OSS) decided that a joint effort
should be initiated. A steering committee was appointed on 27 April
1943 that recommended the formation of a Joint Intelligence Study
Publishing Board to assemble, edit, coordinate, and publish the
Joint Army Navy Intelligence Studies (JANIS). JANIS was the first
interdepartmental basic intelligence program to fulfill the needs of
the US Government for an authoritative and coordinated appraisal of
strategic basic intelligence. Between April 1943 and July 1947, the
board published 34 JANIS studies. JANIS performed well in the war
effort, and numerous letters of commendation were received,
including a statement from Adm. Forrest Sherman, Chief of Staff,
Pacific Ocean Areas, which said, "JANIS has become the indispensable
reference work for the shore-based planners."


The need for more comprehensive basic intelligence in the postwar
world was well expressed in 1946 by George S. Pettee, a noted author
on national security. He wrote in The Future of American Secret
Intelligence (Infantry Journal Press, 1946, page 46) that world
leadership in peace requires even more elaborate intelligence than
in war. "The conduct of peace involves all countries, all human
activities - not just the enemy and his war production."


The Central Intelligence Agency was established on 26 July 1947 and
officially began operating on 18 September 1947. Effective 1 October
1947, the Director of Central Intelligence assumed operational
responsibility for JANIS. On 13 January 1948, the National Security
Council issued Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 3, which
authorized the National Intelligence Survey (NIS) program as a
peacetime replacement for the wartime JANIS program. Before adequate
NIS country sections could be produced, government agencies had to
develop more comprehensive gazetteers and better maps. The US Board
on Geographic Names (BGN) compiled the names; the Department of the
Interior produced the gazetteers; and CIA produced the maps.


The Hoover Commission's Clark Committee, set up in 1954 to study the
structure and administration of the CIA, reported to Congress in
1955 that: "The National Intelligence Survey is an invaluable
publication which provides the essential elements of basic
intelligence on all areas of the world. There will always be a
continuing requirement for keeping the Survey up-to-date." The
Factbook was created as an annual summary and update to the
encyclopedic NIS studies. The first classified Factbook was
published in August 1962, and the first unclassified version was
published in June 1971. The NIS program was terminated in 1973
except for the Factbook, map, and gazetteer components. The 1975
Factbook was the first to be made available to the public with sales
through the US Government Printing Office (GPO). The Factbook was
first made available on the Internet in June 1997. The year 2010
marks the 63rd anniversary of the establishment of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the 67th year of continuous basic
intelligence support to the US Government by The World Factbook and
its two predecessor programs.







The Evolution of The World Factbook


National Basic Intelligence Factbook produced semiannually until
1980. Country entries include sections on Land, Water, People,
Government, Economy, Communications, and Defense Forces.




1981

Publication becomes an annual product and is renamed The World
Factbook. A total of 165 nations are covered on 225 pages.


1983

Appendices (Conversion Factors, International Organizations) first
introduced.


1984

Appendices expanded; now include: A. The United Nations, B. Selected
United Nations Organizations, C. Selected International
Organizations, D. Country Membership in Selected Organizations, E.
Conversion Factors.


1987

A new Geography section replaces the former separate Land and Water
sections. UN Organizations and Selected International Organizations
appendices merged into a new International Organizations appendix.
First multi-color-cover Factbook.


1988

More than 40 new geographic entities added to provide complete world
coverage without overlap or omission. Among the new entities are
Antarctica, oceans (Arctic, Atlantic, Indian, Pacific), and the
World. The front-of-the-book explanatory introduction expanded and
retitled to Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations. Two new
Appendices added: Weights and Measures (in place of Conversion
Factors) and a Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names. Factbook
size reaches 300 pages.


1989

Economy section completely revised and now includes an Overview
briefly describing a country's economy. New entries added under
People, Government, and Communications.


1990

The Government section revised and considerably expanded with new
entries.


1991

A new International Organizations and Groups appendix added.
Factbook size reaches 405 pages.


1992

Twenty new successor state entries replace those of the Soviet Union
and Yugoslavia. New countries are respectively: Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan; and Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia
and Montenegro, Slovenia. Number of nations in the Factbook rises to
188.


1993

Czechoslovakia's split necessitates new Czech Republic and Slovakia
entries. New Eritrea entry added after it secedes from Ethiopia.
Substantial enhancements made to Geography section.


1994

Two new appendices address Selected International Environmental
Agreements. The gross domestic product (GDP) of most developing
countries changed to a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis rather
than an exchange rate basis. Factbook size up to 512 pages.


1995

The GDP of all countries now presented on a PPP basis. New appendix
lists estimates of GDP on an exchange rate basis. Communications
category split; Railroads, Highways, Inland waterways, Pipelines,
Merchant marine, and Airports entries now make up a new
Transportation category. The World Factbook is first produced on
CD-ROM.


1996

Maps accompanying each entry now present more detail. Flags also
introduced for nearly all entities. Various new entries appear under
Geography and Communications. Factbook abbreviations consolidated
into a new Appendix A. Two new appendices present a Cross-Reference
List of Country Data Codes and a Cross-Reference List of
Hydrogeographic Data Codes. Geographic coordinates added to Appendix
H, Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names. Factbook size expands
by 95 pages in one year to reach 652.


1997

The World Factbook introduced onto the Internet. A special printed
edition prepared for the CIA's 50th anniversary. A schema or Guide
to Country Profiles introduced. New color maps and flags now
accompany each country profile. Category headings distinguished by
shaded backgrounds. Number of categories expanded to nine - the
current number - with the addition of an Introduction (for only a
few countries) and Transnational Issues (which includes
Disputes-international and Illicit drugs).


1998

The Introduction category with two entries, Current issues and
Historical perspective, expanded to more countries. Last year for
the production of CD-ROM versions of the Factbook.


1999

Historical perspective and Current issues entries in the
Introduction category combined into a new Background statement.
Several new Economy entries introduced. A new physical map of the
world added to the back-of-the-book reference maps.


2000

A new "country profile" added on the Southern Ocean. The Background
statements dramatically expanded to over 200 countries and
possessions. A number of new Communications entries added.


2001

Background entries completed for all 267 entities in the Factbook.
Several new HIV/AIDS entries introduced under the People category.
Revision begun on individual country maps to include elevation
extremes and a partial geographic grid. Weights and Measures
appendix deleted.


2002

New entry on Distribution of Family income - Gini index added.
Revision of individual country maps continued (process still
ongoing).


2003

In the Economy category, petroleum entries added for oil production,
consumption, exports, imports, and proved reserves, as well as
natural gas proved reserves.


2004

Bi-weekly updates launched on The World Factbook Web site.
Additional petroleum entries included for natural gas production,
consumption, exports, and imports. In the Transportation category,
under Merchant marine, subfields added for foreign-owned vessels and
those registered in other countries. Descriptions of the many forms
of government mentioned in the Factbook incorporated into the
Definitions and Notes.


2005

In the People category, a Major infectious diseases field added for
countries deemed to pose a higher risk for travelers. In the Economy
category, entries included for Current account balance, Investment,
Public debt, and Reserves of foreign exchange and gold. The
Transnational issues category expanded to include Refugees and
internally displaced persons. Category headings receive distinctive
colored backgrounds. These distinguishing colors are used in both
the printed and online versions of the Factbook. Size of the printed
Factbook reaches 702 pages.


2006

In the Economy category, national GDP figures now presented at
Official Exchange Rates (OER) in addition to GDP at purchasing power
parity (PPP). Entries in the Transportation section reordered;
Highways changed to Roadways, and Ports and harbors to Ports and
terminals.


2007

In the Government category, the Capital entry significantly expanded
with up to four subfields, including new information having to do
with time. The subfields consist of the name of the capital itself,
its geographic coordinates, the time difference at the capital from
coordinated universal time (UTC), and, if applicable, information on
daylight saving time (DST). Where appropriate, a special note is
added to highlight those countries with multiple time zones. A
Trafficking in persons entry added to the Transnational issues
category. A new appendix, Weights and Measures, (re)introduced to
the online version of the Factbook.


2008

In the Geography category, two fields focus on the increasingly
vital resource of water: Total renewable water resources and
Freshwater withdrawal. In the Economy category, three fields added
for: Stock of direct foreign investment - at home, Stock of direct
foreign investment - abroad, and Market value of publicly traded
shares. Concise descriptions of all major religions included in the
Definitions and Notes. Responsibility for printing of The World
Factbook turned over to the Government Printing Office.


2009

The online Factbook site completely redesigned with many new
features. In the People category, two new fields provide information
on education in terms of opportunity and resources: School Life
Expectancy and Education expenditures. Additionally, the
Urbanization entry expanded to include all countries. In the Economy
category, five fields added: Central bank discount rate, Commercial
bank prime lending rate, Stock of money, Stock of quasi money, and
Stock of domestic credit.


2010

In order to facilitate comparisons over time, dozens of the entries
in the Economy category expanded to include two (and in some cases
three) years' worth of data. A variety of enhancements introduced on
the Factbook Web site.


2011

Weekly updates inaugurated on the The World Factbook Web site. The
dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles results in two new listings:
Curacao and Sint Maarten. A Broadcast media field replaces the
former Radio broadcast stations and TV broadcast stations entries.
Concise descriptions of all major Legal systems incorporated into
the Definitions and Notes. In the Geography section, under Natural
hazards, a Volcanism subfield added for countries with historically
active volcanoes. In the Government category, a new National anthems
field introduced.



======================================================================



About :: Copyright and Contributors



The World Factbook is prepared by the Central Intelligence Agency
for the use of US Government officials, and the style, format,
coverage, and content are designed to meet their specific
requirements. Information is provided by Antarctic Information
Program (National Science Foundation), Armed Forces Medical
Intelligence Center (Department of Defense), Bureau of the Census
(Department of Commerce), Bureau of Labor Statistics (Department of
Labor), Central Intelligence Agency, Council of Managers of National
Antarctic Programs, Defense Intelligence Agency (Department of
Defense), Department of Energy, Department of State, Fish and
Wildlife Service (Department of the Interior), Maritime
Administration (Department of Transportation), National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (Department of Defense), Naval
Facilities Engineering Command (Department of Defense), Office of
Insular Affairs (Department of the Interior), Office of Naval
Intelligence (Department of Defense), US Board on Geographic Names
(Department of the Interior), US Transportation Command (Department
of Defense), Oil & Gas Journal, and other public and private sources.

The Factbook is in the public domain. Accordingly, it may be copied
freely without permission of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
The official seal of the CIA, however, may NOT be copied without
permission as required by the CIA Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. section
403m).  Misuse of the official seal of the CIA could result in civil
and criminal penalties.





Citation model:


The World Factbook 2009. Washington, DC: Central Intelligence
Agency, 2009.

https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/index.html




Comments and queries are welcome and may be addressed to:


Central Intelligence Agency
Attn: Office of Public Affairs
Washington, DC 20505
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00 AM-4:30 PM Eastern Standard Time
Telephone: [1] (703) 482-0623
FAX: [1] (703) 482-1739



======================================================================



About :: Purchasing




Printed copies of The World Factbook may be obtained from the
following:



US Government Printing Office
732 N. Capitol St.
Washington, DC 20401
Hours: Monday-Friday 7:00 AM-6:30 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST)
Telephone: [1] (202) 512-1800; toll free: [1] (866) 512-1800
FAX: [1] (202) 512-2104
http://bookstore.gpo.gov/

National Technical Information Service
5285 Port Royal Road
Springfield, VA 22161
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00 AM-6:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST)
Telephone: [1] (800) 553-6847 (only in the US);
[1] (703) 605-6000 (for outside US)
FAX: [1] (703) 605-6900
http://www.ntis.gov/


The World Factbook can be accessed on the Internet at:
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/index.html



======================================================================



Frequently Asked Questions(by category)



Answers to many frequently asked questions (FAQs) are explained in
the Definitions and Notes section inThe World Factbook. Please
review this section to see if your question is already answered
there. In addition, we have compiled the following list of FAQs to
answer other common questions.






General ::



Can you provide additional information for a specific country?

The staff cannot provide data beyond what appears in The World
Factbook. The format and information in the Factbook are tailored to
the specific requirements of US Government officials and content is
focused on their current and anticipated needs. The staff welcomes
suggestions for new entries.



How often is The World Factbook updated?

Formerly our Web site and the published Factbook were only updated
annually. In November 2001, we began more frequent online updating
and for many years bi-weekly updates were the norm. In late 2010 we
began to update the online Factbook on a weekly schedule. The CIA
discontinued publishing the printed Factbook after the 2007 edition;
subsequent annual editions have been published by the US Government
Printing Office.



Can I use some or all of The World Factbook for my Web site (book,
research project, homework, etc.)?

The World Factbook is in the public domain and may be used freely by
anyone at anytime without seeking permission. However, US Code
(Section 403m) prohibits use of the CIA seal in a manner which
implies that the CIA approved, endorsed, or authorized such use. For
any questions about your intended use, you should consult with legal
counsel. Further information on use of The World Factbook is
described on the Contributors and Copyright Information page. As a
courtesy, please cite The World Factbook when used.



Why are there discrepancies between The World Factbook's demographic
statistics and other sources?

Although estimates and projections start with the same basic data
from censuses, surveys, and registration systems, final estimates
and projections can differ as a result of factors including data
availability, assessment, and methods and protocols.

Data availability  Researchers may obtain specific country data at
different times. Estimates or projections developed before the
results of a census have been released will not be as accurate as
those that take into account new census results.

Assessment  Researchers can differ in their assessment of data
quality and in their estimates based on the available country data.
They often need to adjust their estimates due to such factors as
undercounting in a census or underregistration of births or deaths.

Methods and protocols  Differences in methods and protocols can
shape the way estimates and projections are made of fertility,
mortality, and international migration, and how these data are
integrated with the population data. For example, the US Census
Bureau uses a model that projects the population ahead by single
years of age, a single year at a time (population statistics used in
the Factbook are based on this model), whereas the United Nations
model projects five-year age groups forward, five years at a time.




Why doesn't The World Factbook include information on states,
departments, provinces, etc., for each country?

The World Factbook provides national-level information on countries,
territories, and dependencies, but not subnational administrative
units within a country. A comprehensive encyclopedia might be a
source for state/province-level information.



Is it possible to access older editions of The World Factbook to do
comparative research and trend analysis?

Previous editions of the Factbook , beginning with 2000, are
available for downloading - but not browsing - on the CIA Web site.
Rehosted versions of earlier editions of the Factbook are available
for browsing, as well as for downloading, at other Internet web
sites. We urge caution, however, in attempting to create time series
by stringing together economic data - especially dollar values -
from previous editions of the Factbook . Over time, data sources,
definitions, and economic accounting methods have changed. We
occasionally have made these changes ourselves in order to provide
our readers with the best information available. Also, in the case
of dollar values, changes in relative exchange rates and prices may
make trends difficult to comprehend. Therefore, individuals should
consult additional resources when doing comparative research or
trend analysis.



Would it be possible to set up a partnership or collaboration
between the producers of The World Factbook and other organizations
or individuals?

The World Factbook does not partner with other organizations or
individuals, but we do welcome comments and suggestions that such
groups or persons choose to provide.











Geography ::



Why can't I find a geographic name for a particular country?

The World Factbook is not a gazetteer (a dictionary or index of
places, usually with descriptive or statistical information) and
cannot provide more than the names of the administrative divisions
(in the Government category) and major cities/towns (on the country
maps). Our expanded Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names
(Appendix F), however, includes many of the world's major geographic
features as well as historic (former) names of countries and cities
mentioned in The World Factbook.



Why are Taiwan and the European Union listed out of alphabetical
order at the end of the Factbook entries?


Taiwan is listed after the A-Z country entries because even though
the mainland People's Republic of China claims Taiwan, elected
Taiwanese authorities de facto administer the island and reject
mainland sovereignty claims. With the establishment of diplomatic
relations with China on January 1, 1979, the US Government
recognized the People's Republic of China as the sole legal
government of China, acknowledging the Chinese position that there
is only one China and that Taiwan is part of China.

The European Union (EU) is not a country, but it has taken on many
nation-like attributes and these may be expanded in the future. A
more complete explanation on the inclusion of the EU into the
Factbook can be found in the Preliminary statement.




Since we have an ambassador who represents the US at the Vatican,
why is this entity not listed in the Factbook?

Vatican City is found under Holy See. The term "Holy See" refers to
the authority and sovereignty vested in the Pope and his advisors to
direct the worldwide Catholic Church. As the jurisdictional equal of
a state, the Holy See can enter into treaties and sends and receives
diplomatic representatives. Vatican City, created in 1929 to
administer properties belonging to the Holy See in Rome, is
recognized under international law as a sovereign state, but it does
not send or receive diplomatic representatives. Consequently, Holy
See is included as a Factbook entry, with Vatican City
cross-referenced in the Geographic Names appendix.



Why is Palestine not listed in The World Factbook?

The Palestinian areas of Gaza Strip and West Bank are listed in the
Factbook.



Why are the Golan Heights not shown as part of Israel or Northern
Cyprus with Turkey?

Territorial occupations/annexations not recognized by the United
States Government are not shown on US Government maps.



Why don't you include information on entities such as Tibet or
Kashmir?


The World Factbook provides information on the administrative
divisions of a country as recommended by the United States Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). The BGN is a component of the US Government
that develops policies, principles, and procedures governing the
spelling, use, and application of geographic names - domestic,
foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions enable all
departments and agencies of the US Government to have access to
uniform names of geographic features.

Also included in the Factbook are entries on parts of the world
whose status has not yet been resolved (e.g., West Bank, Spratly
Islands). Specific regions within a country or areas in dispute
among countries are not covered.




What do you mean when you say that a country is "doubly landlocked"?

A doubly landlocked country is one that is separated from an ocean
or an ocean-accessible sea by two intervening countries. Uzbekistan
and Liechtenstein are the only countries that fit this definition.




Why is the area of the United States described as "slightly larger
than China" in the Factbook , while other sources list China as
larger in area than the United States?


It all depends on whether one is looking at total area (land and
water) when making the comparison (which is the criterion used by
the Factbook) or just land area (which excludes inland water
features such as rivers and lakes).

Total area (combining land and water)

United States = 9,826,630 sq km China = 9,596,960 sq km

Land only (without any water features)

United States = 9,161,923 sq km China = 9,326,410 sq km




Why has The World Factbook dropped the four French departments of
Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion, and French Guiana?

The four entities are no longer in The World Factbook because their
status has changed. While they are overseas departments of France,
they are also now recognized as French regions, having equal status
to the 22 metropolitan regions that make up European France. In
other words, they are now recognized as being part of France proper.
Their status is somewhat analogous to Alaska and Hawaii vis-a-vis
the contiguous United States. Although separated from the larger
geographic entity, they are still considered to be an integral part
of it.











Photos ::



Why do you not have pictures for every country?

Inclusion of photos in The World Factbook is a new feature that
premiered with the unveiling of the redesigned online World Factbook
in June 2009. This is a long-term project, and we plan to
continuously add more photos to the site over time. Eventually, we
hope to have images for every country in the Factbook.



Could you include photos of people from different locations around
the world?

Factbook policy is to not include photos showing identifiable
individuals.



I have great travel photos from my trips abroad. Can I submit them
to your website to enhance your photo collection?

We appreciate the many offers from the public to contribute to our
photo collection. However, we only use photos from US Government
sources.











Spelling and Pronunciation ::



Why is the spelling of proper names such as rulers, presidents, and
prime ministers in The World Factbook different than their spelling
in my country?

The Factbook staff applies the names and spellings from the Chiefs
of State link on the CIA Web site. The World Factbook is prepared
using the standard American English computer keyboard and does not
use any special characters, symbols, or most diacritical markings in
its spellings. Surnames are always spelled with capital letters;
they may appear first in some cultures.



Why does the spelling of geographic names, features, cities,
administrative divisions, etc. in the Factbook differ from those
used in my country?

The United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN) recommends and
approves names and spellings. The BGN is the component of the United
States Government that develops policies, principles, and procedures
governing the spelling, use, and application of geographic names -
domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions enable all
departments and agencies of the US Government to use uniform names
of geographic features. (A note is usually included where changes
may have occurred but have not yet been approved by the BGN). The
World Factbook is prepared using the standard American English
computer keyboard and does not use any special characters, symbols,
or most diacritical markings in its spellings.



Why does The World Factbook omit pronunciations of country or leader
names?

There are too many variations in pronunciation among
English-speaking countries, not to mention English renditions of
non-English names, for pronunciations to be included. American
English pronunciations are included for some countries such as Qatar
and Kiribati.



Why is the name of the Labour party misspelled?

When American and British spellings of common English words differ,
The World Factbook always uses the American spelling, even when
these common words form part of a proper name in British English.











Policies and Procedures ::



What is The World Factbook's source for a specific subject field?

The Factbook staff uses many different sources to publish what we
judge are the most reliable and consistent data for any particular
category. Space considerations preclude a listing of these various
sources.



The names of some geographic features provided in the Factbook
differ from those used in other publications. For example, in Asia
the Factbook has Burma as the country name, but in other
publications Myanmar is used; also, the Factbook uses Sea of Japan
whereas other publications label it East Sea. What is your policy on
naming geographic features?

The Factbook staff follows the guidance of the United States Board
on Geographic Names (BGN). The BGN is the component of the United
States Government that develops policies, principles, and procedures
governing the spelling, use, and application of geographic names -
domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions enable all
departments and agencies of the US Government to have access to
uniform names of geographic features. The position of the BGN is
that the names Burma and Sea of Japan be used in official US
Government maps and publications.



Why is most of the statistical information in the Factbook given in
metric units, rather than the units standard to US measure?

US Federal agencies are required by the Metric Conversion Act of
1975 (Public Law 94-168) and by Executive Order 12770 of July 1991
to use the International System of Units, commonly referred to as
the metric system or SI. In addition, the metric system is used by
over 95 percent of the world's population.



Why don't you include information on minimum and maximum temperature
extremes?

The Factbook staff judges that this information would only be useful
for some (generally smaller) countries. Larger countries can have
large temperature extremes that do not represent the landmass as a
whole.



What information sources are used for the country flags?

Flag designs used in The World Factbook are based on various
national and vexillological sources.



Why do your GDP (Gross Domestic Product) statistics differ from
other sources?

We have two sets of GDP dollar estimates in The World Factbook , one
derived from purchasing power parity (PPP) calculations and the
other derived from official exchange rates (OER). Other sources
probably use one of the two. See the Definitions and Notes section
on GDP and GDP methodology for more information.



On the CIA Web site, Chiefs of State is updated weekly, but the last
update for the Factbook was an earlier date. Why the discrepancy?

Although Chiefs of State and The World Factbook both appear on the
CIA Web site, they are produced and updated on different weekly
schedules. Chiefs of State includes fewer countries but more
leaders, whereas The World Factbook has a much larger database and
includes all countries.



Some percentage distributions do not add to 100. Why not?


Because of rounding, percentage distributions do not always add
precisely to 100%. Rounding of numbers always results in a loss of
precision - i.e., error. This error becomes apparent when percentage
data are totaled, as the following two examples show:


                  Original Data         Rounded to whole integer

Example 1             43.2                       43
                      30.4                       30
                      26.4                       26
                      ----                       --
                     100.0                       99

Example 2             42.8                       43
                      31.6                       32
                      25.6                       26
                      ----                       --
                     100.0                      101


When this occurs, we do not force the numbers to add exactly to 100,
because doing so would introduce additional error into the
distribution.




What rounding convention does The World Factbook use?

In deciding on the number of digits to present, the Factbook staff
assesses the accuracy of the original data and the needs of US
Government officials. All of the economic data are processed by
computer - either at the source or by the Factbook staff. The
economic data presented in The Factbook, therefore, follow the
rounding convention used by virtually all numerical software
applications, namely, any digit followed by a "5" is rounded up to
the next higher digit, no matter whether the original digit is even
or odd. Thus, for example, when rounded to the nearest integer, 2.5
becomes 3, rather than 2, as occurred in some pre-computer rounding
systems.



Why do you list "Independence" dates for countries such as France,
Germany, and the United Kingdom?

For most countries, this entry presents the date that sovereignty
was achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship. For
other countries, the date may be some other significant nationhood
event such as the traditional founding date or the date of
unification, federation, confederation, establishment, or state
succession and so may not strictly be an "Independence" date.
Dependent entities have the nature of their dependency status noted
in this same entry.











Technical ::



Does The World Factbook comply with Section 508 of the
Rehabilitation Act regarding accessibility of Web pages?

The World Factbook home page has a link entitled "Text/Low Bandwidth
Version." The country data in the text version is fully accessible.
We believe The World Factbook is compliant with the Section 508 law.
If you are experiencing difficulty, please use our comment form to
provide us details of the specific problem you are experiencing and
the assistive software and/or hardware you are using so that we can
work with our technical support staff to find and implement a
solution. We welcome visitors' suggestions to improve accessibility
of The World Factbook and the CIA Web site.



I am using the Factbook online and it is not working. What is wrong?

Hundreds of "Factbook" look-alikes exist on the Internet. You can
access The World Factbook at: www.cia.gov, which is the only
official site.



When I attempt to download a PDF (Portable Document Format) map file
(or some other map) the file has no image. Can you fix this?

Some of the files on The World Factbook Web site are large and could
take several minutes to download on a dial-up connection. The screen
might be blank during the download process.



When I open a map on The World Factbook site, it is fuzzy or
granular, or too big or too small. Why?

Adjusting the resolution setting on your monitor should correct this
problem.



Is The World Factbook country data available in machine-readable
format? All I can find is HTML, but I'm looking for simple tabular
data.

The Factbook Web site now features Country Comparison pages for
selected Factbook entries. All of the Country Comparison pages can
be downloaded as tab-delimited data files that can be opened in
other applications such as spreadsheets and databases.



======================================================================



@Afghanistan  (South Asia)

Introduction ::Afghanistan




Background:


Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and founded
Afghanistan in 1747. The country served as a buffer between the
British and Russian Empires until it won independence from notional
British control in 1919. A brief experiment in democracy ended in a
1973 coup and a 1978 Communist counter-coup. The Soviet Union
invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan Communist regime,
touching off a long and destructive war. The USSR withdrew in 1989
under relentless pressure by internationally supported
anti-Communist mujahedin rebels. A series of subsequent civil wars
saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban, a hardline
Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the
country's civil war and anarchy. Following the 11 September 2001
terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C., a US,
Allied, and anti-Taliban Northern Alliance military action toppled
the Taliban for sheltering Osama BIN LADIN. The UN-sponsored Bonn
Conference in 2001 established a process for political
reconstruction that included the adoption of a new constitution, a
presidential election in 2004, and National Assembly elections in
2005. In December 2004, Hamid KARZAI became the first democratically
elected president of Afghanistan and the National Assembly was
inaugurated the following December. Karzai was re-elected in August
2009 for a second term. Despite gains toward building a stable
central government, a resurgent Taliban and continuing provincial
instability - particularly in the south and the east - remain
serious challenges for the Afghan Government.







Geography ::Afghanistan




Location:


Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran



Geographic coordinates:


33 00 N, 65 00 E



Map references:


Asia



Area:


total: 652,230 sq km
country comparison to the world: 41
land: 652,230 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 5,529 km

border countries: China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km,
Tajikistan 1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers



Terrain:


mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Amu Darya 258 m

highest point: Noshak 7,485 m



Natural resources:


natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite, talc, barites,
sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and semiprecious stones



Land use:


arable land: 12.13%

permanent crops: 0.21%

other: 87.66% (2005)



Irrigated land:


27,200 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


65 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 23.26 cu km/yr (2%/0%/98%)

per capita: 779 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains; flooding;
droughts



Environment - current issues:


limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of
potable water; soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of
the remaining forests are being cut down for fuel and building
materials); desertification; air and water pollution



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection

signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Life Conservation



Geography - note:


landlocked; the Hindu Kush mountains that run northeast to southwest
divide the northern provinces from the rest of the country; the
highest peaks are in the northern Vakhan (Wakhan Corridor)







People ::Afghanistan




Population:


29,121,286
country comparison to the world: 41
note: this is a significantly revised figure; the previous estimate
of 33,609,937 was extrapolated from the last Afghan census held in
1979, which was never completed because of the Soviet invasion; a
new Afghan census is scheduled to take place in 2010 (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 43.6% (male 6,343,611/female 6,036,673)

15-64 years: 54% (male 7,864,422/female 7,470,617)

65 years and over: 2.4% (male 326,873/female 353,520) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 18 years

male: 17.9 years

female: 18 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.471% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


Birth rate:


38.11 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Death rate:


17.65 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Net migration rate:


4.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


Urbanization:


urban population: 24% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 5.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female

total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 151.5 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 2
male: 155.15 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 147.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 44.65 years
country comparison to the world: 221
male: 44.45 years

female: 44.87 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


5.5 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.01% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Afghan(s)

adjective: Afghan



Ethnic groups:


Pashtun 42%, Tajik 27%, Hazara 9%, Uzbek 9%, Aimak 4%, Turkmen 3%,
Baloch 2%, other 4%



Religions:


Sunni Muslim 80%, Shia Muslim 19%, other 1%



Languages:


Afghan Persian or Dari (official) 50%, Pashto (official) 35%, Turkic
languages (primarily Uzbek and Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor languages
(primarily Balochi and Pashai) 4%, much bilingualism



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 28.1%

male: 43.1%

female: 12.6% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 8 years

male: 11 years

female: 5 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


NA







Government ::Afghanistan




Country name:


conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan

conventional short form: Afghanistan

local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan

local short form: Afghanestan

former: Republic of Afghanistan



Government type:


Islamic republic



Capital:


name: Kabul

geographic coordinates: 34 31 N, 69 11 E

time difference: UTC+4.5 (9.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


34 provinces (welayat, singular - welayat); Badakhshan, Badghis,
Baghlan, Balkh, Bamyan, Daykundi, Farah, Faryab, Ghazni, Ghor,
Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabul, Kandahar, Kapisa, Khost, Kunar,
Kunduz, Laghman, Logar, Nangarhar, Nimroz, Nuristan, Paktika,
Paktiya, Panjshir, Parwan, Samangan, Sar-e Pul, Takhar, Uruzgan,
Wardak, Zabul



Independence:


19 August 1919 (from UK control over Afghan foreign affairs)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 19 August (1919)



Constitution:


constitution drafted 14 December 2003-4 January 2004; signed 16
January 2004; ratified 26 January 2004



Legal system:


based on mixed civil and sharia law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); First Vice President Mohammad
FAHIM Khan (since 19 November 2009); Second Vice President Abdul
Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004); note - the president is both
the chief of state and head of government

head of government: President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); First Vice President Mohammad
FAHIM Khan (since 19 November 2009); Second Vice President Abdul
Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004)

cabinet: 25 ministers; note - ministers are appointed by the
president and approved by the National Assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the president and two vice presidents elected by direct
vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term); if no
candidate receives 50% or more of the vote in the first round of
voting, the two candidates with the most votes will participate in a
second round; election last held on 20 August 2009 (next to be held
in 2014)

election results: Hamid KARZAI reelected president; percent of vote
(first round) - Hamid KARZAI 49.67%, Abdullah ABDULLAH 30.59%,
Ramazan BASHARDOST 10.46%, Ashraf GHANI 2.94%; other 6.34%; note -
ABDULLAH conceded the election to KARZAI following the first round
vote



Legislative branch:


the bicameral National Assembly consists of the Meshrano Jirga or
House of Elders (102 seats, one-third of members elected from
provincial councils for four-year terms, one-third elected from
local district councils for three-year terms, and one-third
nominated by the president for five-year terms) and the Wolesi Jirga
or House of People (no more than 250 seats); members directly
elected for five-year terms

note: on rare occasions the government may convene a Loya Jirga
(Grand Council) on issues of independence, national sovereignty, and
territorial integrity; it can amend the provisions of the
constitution and prosecute the president; it is made up of members
of the National Assembly and chairpersons of the provincial and
district councils

elections: last held on 18 September 2010 (next election expected in
2015)

election results: NA



Judicial branch:


the constitution establishes a nine-member Stera Mahkama or Supreme
Court (its nine justices are appointed for 10-year terms by the
president with approval of the Wolesi Jirga) and subordinate High
Courts and Appeals Courts; there is also a minister of justice; a
separate Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission established by
the Bonn Agreement is charged with investigating human rights abuses
and war crimes



Political parties and leaders:


Afghanistan Peoples' Treaty Party [Sayyed Amir TAHSEEN];
Afghanistan's Islamic Mission Organization [Abdul Rasoul SAYYAF];
Afghanistan's Islamic Nation Party [Toran Noor Aqa Ahmad ZAI];
Afghanistan's National Islamic Party [Rohullah LOUDIN];
Afghanistan's Welfare Party [Meer Asef ZAEEFI]; Afghan Social
Democratic Party [Anwarul Haq AHADI]; Afghan Society for the Call to
the Koran and Sunna [Mawlawee Samiullah NAJEEBEE]; Comprehensive
Movement of Democracy and Development of Afghanistan Party [Sher
Mohammad BAZGAR]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Al-hajj Mohammad
Tawos ARAB]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Kabir RANJBAR];
Elites People of Afghanistan Party [Abdul Hamid JAWAD]; Freedom and
Democracy Movement of Afghanistan [Abdul Raqib Jawid KOHISTANEE];
Freedom Party of Afghanistan [Abdul MALEK]; Freedom Party of
Afghanistan [Dr. Ghulam Farooq NEJRABEE]; Hizullah-e-Afghanistan
[Qari Ahmad ALI]; Human Rights Protection and Development Party of
Afghanistan [Baryalai NASRATI]; Islamic Justice Party of Afghanistan
[Mohammad Kabir MARZBAN]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Mohammad
Ali JAWID]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Mukhtar
MUFLEH]; Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Khalid FAROOQI,
Abdul Hadi ARGHANDIWAL]; Islamic Party of the Afghan Land [Mohammad
Hassan FEROZKHEL]; Islamic People's Movement of Afghanistan [Al-haj
Said Hussain ANWARY]; Islamic Society of Afghanistan [Ustad
RABBANI]; Islamic Unity of the Nation of Afghanistan Party [Qurban
Ali URFANI]; Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Karim
KHALILI]; Islamic Unity Party of the People of Afghanistan [Haji
Mohammad MOHAQQEQ]; Labor and Progress of Afghanistan Party
[Zulfiqar OMID]; Muslim People of Afghanistan Party [Besmellah
JOYAN]; Muslim Unity Movement Party of Afghanistan [Wazir Mohammad
WAHDAT]; National and Islamic Sovereignty Movement Party of
Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah AHMADZAI]; National Congress Party of
Afghanistan [Abdul Latif PEDRAM]; National Country Party [Ghulam
MOHAMMAD]; National Development Party of Afghanistan [Dr. Assef
BAKTASH]; National Freedom Seekers Party [Abdul Hadi DABEER];
National Independence Party of Afghanistan [Taj Mohammad WARDAK];
National Islamic Fighters Party of Afghanistan [Amanat NINGARHAREE];
National Islamic Front of Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Ahmad GAILANEE];
National Islamic Moderation Party of Afghanistan [Qara Baik
IZADYAR]; National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Sayed NOORULLAH]

National Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad AKBAREE];
National Movement of Afghanistan [Ahmad Wali MASOOUD]; National
Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid ARYAN]; National Patch of
Afghanistan Party [Sayed Kamal SADAT]; National Peace Islamic Party
of Afghanistan [Shah Mohammood Popal ZAI]; National Peace & Islamic
Party of the Tribes of Afghanistan [Abdul Qaher SHARIATEE]; National
Peace & Unity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Qader IMAMI]; National
Prosperity and Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Osman
SALEKZADA]; National Prosperity Party [Mohammad Hassan JAHFAREE];
National Solidarity Movement of Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Eshaq
GAILANEE]; National Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Sayed Mansoor
NADREEI]; National Sovereignty Party [Sayed Mustafa KAZEMI];
National Stability Party [Mohammad Same KHAROTI]; National Stance
Party [Habibullah JANEBDAR]; National Tribal Unity Islamic Party of
Afghanistan [Mohammad Shah KHOGYANI]; National Unity Movement
[Sultan Mohammad GHAZI]; National Unity Movement of Afghanistan
[Mohammad Nadir AATASH]; National Unity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul
Rashid JALILI]; New Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Yunis QANUNI]; Peace
and National Welfare Activists Society [Shamsul al-Haq Noor SHAMS];
Peace Movement [Shahnawaz TANAI]; People's Aspirations Party of
Afghanistan [Ilhaj Saraj-u-din ZAFAREE]; People's Freedom Seekers
Party of Afghanistan [Feda Mohammad EHSAS]; People's Liberal Freedom
Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Ajmal SUHAIL]; People's Message Party
of Afghanistan [Noor Aqa WAINEE]; People's Movement of the National
Unity of Afghanistan [Abdul Hakim NOORZAI]; People's Party of
Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah ASAR]; People's Prosperity Party of
Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad ZAREEF]; People's Sovereignty Movement
of Afghanistan [Hayatullah SUBHANEE]; People's Uprising Party of
Afghanistan [Sayed Zahir Qayedam Al-BELADI]; People's Welfare Party
of Afghanistan [Miagul WASIQ]; People's Welfare Party of Afghanistan
[Mohammad Zubair PAIROZ]; Progressive Democratic Party of
Afghanistan [Mohammad Wali ARYA]; Republican Party [Sebghatullah
SANJAR]; Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Khaleq NEMAT]; The
Afghanistan's Mujahid Nation's Islamic Unity Movement [Saeedullah
SAEED]; The People of Afghanistan's Democratic Movement [Mohammad
Sharif NAZARI]; Tribes Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad
Zarif NASERI]; Understanding and Democracy Party of Afghanistan
[Ahamad SHAHEEN]

United Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Wasil RAHIMEE]; United Islamic
Party of Afghanistan [Wahidullah SABAWOON]; Young Afghanistan's
Islamic Organization [Sayed Jawad HUSSINEE]; Youth Solidarity Party
of Afghanistan [Mohammad Jamil KARZAI]; note - includes only
political parties approved by the Ministry of Justice



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: religious groups; tribal leaders; ethnically based groups;
Taliban



International organization participation:


ADB, CICA, CP, ECO, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner),
SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Khojesta F.
EBRAHIMKHEL

chancery: 2341 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 483-6410

FAX: [1] (202) 483-6488

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Karl W. EIKENBERRY

embassy: The Great Masood Road, Kabul

mailing address: U.S. Embassy Kabul, APO, AE 09806

telephone: [93] 0700 108 001

FAX: [93] 0700 108 564



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), red, and green,
with the national emblem in white centered on the red band and
slightly overlapping the other two bands; the center of the emblem
features a mosque with pulpit and flags on either side, below the
mosque are numerals for the solar year 1298 (1919 in the Gregorian
calendar, the year of Afghan independence from the UK); this central
image is circled by a border consisting of sheaves of wheat on the
left and right, in the upper-center is an Arabic inscription of the
Shahada (Muslim creed) below which are rays of the rising sun over
the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great"), and at bottom
center is a scroll bearing the name Afghanistan; black signifies the
past, red is for the blood shed for independence, and green can
represent either hope for the future, agricultural prosperity, or
Islam

note: Afghanistan had more changes to its national flag in the 20th
century than any other country; the colors black, red, and green
appeared on most of them



National anthem:


name: "Milli Surood" (National Anthem)

lyrics/music: Abdul Bari JAHANI/Babrak WASA

note: adopted 2006; the 2004 constitution of the post-Taliban
government mandated that a new national anthem should be written
containing the phrase "Allahu Akbar" (God is Great) and mentioning
the names of Afghanistan's ethnic groups







Economy ::Afghanistan




Economy - overview:


Afghanistan's economy is recovering from decades of conflict. The
economy has improved significantly since the fall of the Taliban
regime in 2001 largely because of the infusion of international
assistance, the recovery of the agricultural sector, and service
sector growth. Despite the progress of the past few years,
Afghanistan is extremely poor, landlocked, and highly dependent on
foreign aid, agriculture, and trade with neighboring countries. Much
of the population continues to suffer from shortages of housing,
clean water, electricity, medical care, and jobs. Criminality,
insecurity, weak governance, and the Afghan Government's inability
to extend rule of law to all parts of the country pose challenges to
future economic growth. Afghanistan's living standards are among the
lowest in the world. While the international community remains
committed to Afghanistan's development, pledging over $67 billion at
four donors' conferences since 2002, the Government of Afghanistan
will need to overcome a number of challenges, including low revenue
collection, anemic job creation, high levels of corruption, weak
government capacity, and poor public infrastructure.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$29.81 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
$27.38 billion (2009 est.)

$22.34 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$16.63 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


8.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6
22.5% (2009 est.)

3.4% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 212
$1,000 (2009 est.)

$800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 31%

industry: 26%

services: 43%

note: data exclude opium production (2008 est.)



Labor force:


15 million (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 78.6%

industry: 5.7%

services: 15.7% (FY08/09 est.)



Unemployment rate:


35% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183
40% (2005 est.)



Population below poverty line:


36% (FY08/09)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


13.3% (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 214
20.7% (2008 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


15% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48
14.92% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$3.943 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 100
$2.819 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$4.149 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 125
$2.915 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$363.6 million (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166
$20.06 million (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


opium, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool, mutton, sheepskins, lambskins



Industries:


small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture, shoes,
fertilizer, apparel, food-products, non-alcoholic beverages, mineral
water, cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, coal, copper



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


285.5 million kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


Electricity - consumption:


231.1 million kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


230 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Oil - consumption:


5,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


Oil - imports:


4,404 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 161


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Natural gas - production:


30 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Natural gas - consumption:


30 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Natural gas - proved reserves:


49.55 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Current account balance:


-$2.475 billion (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160
$85 million (2008 est.)



Exports:


$547 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164
$603 million (2008 est.); note - not including illicit exports or
reexports



Exports - commodities:


opium, fruits and nuts, handwoven carpets, wool, cotton, hides and
pelts, precious and semi-precious gems



Exports - partners:


US 26.47%, India 23.09%, Pakistan 17.36%, Tajikistan 12.51% (2009)



Imports:


$5.3 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
$4.5 billion (2007)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and other capital goods, food, textiles, petroleum products



Imports - partners:


Pakistan 26.78%, US 24.81%, India 5.15%, Germany 5.06%, Russia 4.04%
(2009)



Debt - external:


$2.7 billion (2008/2009)
country comparison to the world: 134
$8 billion (2004)



Exchange rates:


afghanis (AFA) per US dollar - 50.23 (2009), 50.25 (2008), 50
(2007), 46 (2006), 47.7 (2005), 48 (2004)







Communications ::Afghanistan




Telephones - main lines in use:


129,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 139


Telephones - mobile cellular:


12 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 57


Telephone system:


general assessment: limited fixed-line telephone service; an
increasing number of Afghans utilize mobile-cellular phone networks

domestic: aided by the presence of multiple providers,
mobile-cellular telephone service continues to improve rapidly

international: country code - 93; multiple VSAT's provide
international and domestic voice and data connectivity (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-owned broadcaster, Radio Television Afghanistan (RTA),
operates a series of radio and television stations in Kabul and the
provinces; an estimated 50 private radio stations, 8 TV networks,
and about a dozen international broadcasters are available; more
than 30 community-based radio stations broadcasting (2007)



Internet country code:


.af



Internet hosts:


46 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 211


Internet users:


1 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 98


Communications - note:


Internet access is growing through Internet cafes as well as public
"telekiosks" in Kabul (2005)







Transportation ::Afghanistan




Airports:


53 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 89


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 19

over 3,047 m: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 8

914 to 1,523 m: 2

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 34

2,438 to 3,047 m: 5

1,524 to 2,437 m: 14

914 to 1,523 m: 6

under 914 m: 9 (2010)



Heliports:


11 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 466 km (2009)



Roadways:


total: 42,150 km
country comparison to the world: 87
paved: 12,350 km

unpaved: 29,800 km (2006)



Waterways:


1,200 km; (chiefly Amu Darya, which handles vessels up to 500 DWT)
(2008)
country comparison to the world: 59


Ports and terminals:


Kheyrabad, Shir Khan







Military ::Afghanistan




Military branches:


Afghan Armed Forces: Afghan National Army (ANA, includes Afghan
National Army Air Force, ANAAF) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


22 years of age; inductees are contracted into service for a 4-year
term (2005)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 6,800,888

females age 16-49: 6,413,647 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,888,358

females age 16-49: 3,641,998 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 378,996

female: 357,822 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.9% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 75






Transnational Issues ::Afghanistan




Disputes - international:


Pakistan has built fences in some portions of its border with
Afghanistan which remains open in some areas to foreign terrorists
and other illegal activities



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 132,246 (mostly Pashtuns and Kuchis displaced in south and
west due to drought and instability) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


world's largest producer of opium; poppy cultivation decreased 22%
to 157,000 hectares in 2008 but remains at a historically high
level; less favorable growing conditions in 2008 reduced potential
opium production to 5,500 metric tons, down 31 percent from 2007; if
the entire opium crop were processed, 648 metric tons of pure heroin
potentially could be produced; the Taliban and other antigovernment
groups participate in and profit from the opiate trade, which is a
key source of revenue for the Taliban inside Afghanistan; widespread
corruption and instability impede counterdrug efforts; most of the
heroin consumed in Europe and Eurasia is derived from Afghan opium;
vulnerable to drug money laundering through informal financial
networks; regional source of hashish (2008)









page last updated on January 13, 2011

======================================================================




@Akrotiri  (Europe)

Introduction ::Akrotiri




Background:


By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the
independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty and
jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The southernmost and smallest of these is the
Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area, which is also referred to as the
Western Sovereign Base Area.







Geography ::Akrotiri




Location:


Eastern Mediterranean, peninsula on the southwest coast of Cyprus



Geographic coordinates:


34 37 N, 32 58 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 123 sq km
country comparison to the world: 223
note: includes a salt lake and wetlands



Area - comparative:


about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


total: 47.4 km

border countries: Cyprus 47.4 km



Coastline:


56.3 km



Climate:


temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters



Environment - current issues:


hunting around the salt lake; note - breeding place for loggerhead
and green turtles; only remaining colony of griffon vultures is on
the base



Geography - note:


British extraterritorial rights also extended to several small
off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base Area
(SBA) land, 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the
Ministry of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land







People ::Akrotiri




Population:


approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri
and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 Service and UK-based
contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents
country comparison to the world: 219


Languages:


English, Greek







Government ::Akrotiri




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Akrotiri



Dependency status:


a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus



Capital:


name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri
and Dhekelia)

geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Constitution:


Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in Council 1960,
effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal document



Legal system:


the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court system to
deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to the Cypriot
population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws of the
Republic of Cyprus



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

head of government: Administrator Major General Jamie GORDON (since
October 2008); note - reports to the British Ministry of Defense

elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary; the administrator
appointed by the monarch



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Flag description:


the flag of the UK is used



National anthem:


note: as a United Kingdom area of special sovereignty, "God Save the
Queen" is official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Akrotiri




Economy - overview:


Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military
and their families located in Akrotiri. All food and manufactured
goods must be imported.



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7338 (2009), 0.6827
(2008)

note: on 1 January 2008 Akrotiri and Dhekelia adopted the euro along
with the rest of Cyprus







Communications ::Akrotiri




Broadcast media:


British Forces Broadcast Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel
satellite TV service as well as BFBS radio broadcasts to the
Akrotiri Sovereign Base (2009)








Military ::Akrotiri




Military - note:


Akrotiri has a full RAF base, Headquarters for British Forces
Cyprus, and Episkopi Support Unit










page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Albania  (Europe)

Introduction ::Albania




Background:


Albania declared its independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1912,
but was conquered by Italy in 1939. Communist partisans took over
the country in 1944. Albania allied itself first with the USSR
(until 1960), and then with China (to 1978). In the early 1990s,
Albania ended 46 years of xenophobic Communist rule and established
a multiparty democracy. The transition has proven challenging as
successive governments have tried to deal with high unemployment,
widespread corruption, a dilapidated physical infrastructure,
powerful organized crime networks, and combative political
opponents. Albania has made progress in its democratic development
since first holding multiparty elections in 1991, but deficiencies
remain. International observers judged elections to be largely free
and fair since the restoration of political stability following the
collapse of pyramid schemes in 1997; however, there have been claims
of electoral fraud in every one of Albania's post-communist
elections. In the 2005 general elections, the Democratic Party and
its allies won a decisive victory on pledges to reduce crime and
corruption, promote economic growth, and decrease the size of
government. The election, and particularly the orderly transition of
power, was considered an important step forward. Albania joined NATO
in April 2009 and is a potential candidate for EU accession.
Although Albania's economy continues to grow, the country is still
one of the poorest in Europe, hampered by a large informal economy
and an inadequate energy and transportation infrastructure.







Geography ::Albania




Location:


Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian Sea,
between Greece in the south and Montenegro and Kosovo to the north



Geographic coordinates:


41 00 N, 20 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 28,748 sq km
country comparison to the world: 144
land: 27,398 sq km

water: 1,350 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maryland



Land boundaries:


total: 717 km

border countries: Greece 282 km, Macedonia 151 km, Montenegro 172
km, Kosovo 112 km



Coastline:


362 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry summers;
interior is cooler and wetter



Terrain:


mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point: Maja e Korabit (Golem Korab) 2,764 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, coal, bauxite, chromite, copper, iron ore,
nickel, salt, timber, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 20.1%

permanent crops: 4.21%

other: 75.69% (2005)



Irrigated land:


3,530 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


41.7 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 1.71 cu km/yr (27%/11%/62%)

per capita: 546 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


destructive earthquakes; tsunamis occur along southwestern coast;
floods; drought



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from industrial and
domestic effluents



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic Sea to
Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)







People ::Albania




Population:


2,986,952 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 135


Age structure:


0-14 years: 23.1% (male 440,528/female 400,816)

15-64 years: 67.1% (male 1,251,001/female 1,190,841)

65 years and over: 9.8% (male 165,557/female 190,710) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 30 years

male: 28.9 years

female: 31.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.249% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Birth rate:


11.88 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166


Death rate:


6.04 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


Net migration rate:


-3.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Urbanization:


urban population: 47% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.9% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.123 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female

total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 15.11 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 123
male: 16.79 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 13.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.22 years
country comparison to the world: 59
male: 74.65 years

female: 80.11 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.47 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Albanian(s)

adjective: Albanian



Ethnic groups:


Albanian 95%, Greek 3%, other 2% (Vlach, Roma (Gypsy), Serb,
Macedonian, Bulgarian) (1989 est.)

note: in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from
1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization)



Religions:


Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%

note: percentages are estimates; there are no available current
statistics on religious affiliation; all mosques and churches were
closed in 1967 and religious observances prohibited; in November
1990, Albania began allowing private religious practice



Languages:


Albanian (official - derived from Tosk dialect), Greek, Vlach,
Romani, Slavic dialects



Literacy:


definition: age 9 and over can read and write

total population: 98.7%

male: 99.2%

female: 98.3% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years

male: 11 years

female: 11 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


2.9% of GDP (2002)
country comparison to the world: 148






Government ::Albania




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Albania

conventional short form: Albania

local long form: Republika e Shqiperise

local short form: Shqiperia

former: People's Socialist Republic of Albania



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Tirana (Tirane)

geographic coordinates: 41 19 N, 19 49 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


12 counties (qarqe, singular - qark); Berat, Diber, Durres, Elbasan,
Fier, Gjirokaster, Korce, Kukes, Lezhe, Shkoder, Tirane, Vlore



Independence:


28 November 1912 (from the Ottoman Empire)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 28 November (1912)



Constitution:


approved by parliament on 21 October 1998; adopted by popular
referendum on 22 November 1998; promulgated 28 November 1998



Legal system:


has a civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction; has accepted jurisdiction of the International
Criminal Court for its citizens



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President of the Republic Bamir TOPI (since 24 July
2007)

head of government: Prime Minister Sali BERISHA (since 10 September
2005)

cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the prime minister,
nominated by the president, and approved by parliament
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by the Assembly for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); four election rounds held between 8
and 20 July 2007 (next election to be held in 2012); prime minister
appointed by the president

election results: Bamir TOPI elected president; Assembly vote,
fourth round (three-fifths majority, 84 votes, required): Bamir TOPI
85 votes, Neritan CEKA 5 votes



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Kuvendi (140 deputies; 100 deputies
elected directly in single member electoral zones with an
approximate number of voters; 40 deputies elected from multi-name
lists of parties or party coalitions according to their respective
order)

elections: last held on 28 June 2009 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PD
68, PS 65, LSI 4, other 3



Judicial branch:


Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (chairman is elected by the
People's Assembly for a four-year term) and multiple appeals and
district courts



Political parties and leaders:


Democratic Party or PD [Sali BERISHA]; Party for Justice and
Integration or PDI [Tahir MUCHEDINI]; Republican Party or PR [Fatmir
MEDIU]; Socialist Movement for Integration or LSI [Ilir META];
Socialist Party or PS [Edi RAMA]; Unity for Humen Rights Party or
PBDNJ [Vangjel DULE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Citizens Advocacy Office [Kreshnik SPAHIU]; Confederation of Trade
Unions of Albania or KSSH [Kastriot MUCO]; Front for Albanian
National Unification or FBKSH [Gafur ADILI]; Mjaft Movement [Elton
KACIDHJA]; Omonia [Ligorag KARAMELO]; Union of Independent Trade
Unions of Albania or BSPSH [Gezim KALAJA]



International organization participation:


BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, SECI,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Gilbert GALANXHI

chancery: 2100 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 223-4942

FAX: [1] (202) 628-7342

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Alexander ARVIZU

embassy: Rruga e Elbasanit, Labinoti #103, Tirana

mailing address: US Department of State, 9510 Tirana Place, Dulles,
VA 20189-9510

telephone: [355] (4) 2247285

FAX: [355] (4) 2232222



Flag description:


red with a black two-headed eagle in the center; the design is
claimed to be that of 15th-century hero George Castriota
SKANDERBERG, who led a successful uprising against the Turks that
resulted in a short-lived independence for some Albanian regions
(1443-1478); an unsubstantiated explanation for the eagle symbol is
the tradition that Albanians see themselves as descendants of the
eagle; they refer to themselves as "Shkypetars," which translates as
"sons of the eagle"



National anthem:


name: "Hymni i Flamurit" (Hymn to the Flag)

lyrics/music: Aleksander Stavre DRENOVA/Ciprian PORUMBESCU

note: adopted 1912







Economy ::Albania




Economy - overview:


Albania, a formerly closed, centrally-planned state, is making the
difficult transition to a more modern open-market economy.
Macroeconomic growth averaged around 6% between 2004-08, but
declined to about 3% in 2009-10. Inflation is low and stable. The
government has taken measures to curb violent crime, and recently
adopted a fiscal reform package aimed at reducing the large gray
economy and attracting foreign investment. The economy is bolstered
by annual remittances from abroad representing about 15% of GDP,
mostly from Albanians residing in Greece and Italy; this helps
offset the towering trade deficit. The agricultural sector, which
accounts for over half of employment but only about one-fifth of
GDP, is limited primarily to small family operations and subsistence
farming because of lack of modern equipment, unclear property
rights, and the prevalence of small, inefficient plots of land.
Energy shortages because of a reliance on hydropower, and antiquated
and inadequate infrastructure contribute to Albania's poor business
environment and lack of success in attracting new foreign investment
needed to expand the country's export base. The completion of a new
thermal power plant near Vlore has helped diversify generation
capacity, and plans to upgrade transmission lines between Albania
and Montenegro and Kosovo would help relieve the energy shortages.
Also, with help from EU funds, the government is taking steps to
improve the poor national road and rail network, a long-standing
barrier to sustained economic growth.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$23.95 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115
$23.23 billion (2009 est.)

$22.49 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars

Albania has an informal, and unreported, sector that may be as large
as 50% of official GDP



GDP (official exchange rate):


$11.58 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
3.3% (2009 est.)

7.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$8,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123
$7,800 (2009 est.)

$7,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 21.2%

industry: 19.5%

services: 59.3% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.1 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 58%

industry: 15%

services: 27% (September 2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


12.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134
12.8% (2009 est.)

note: these are official rates, but actual rates may exceed 30% due
to preponderance of near-subsistence farming



Population below poverty line:


25% (2004 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.2%

highest 10%: 25.9% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


26.7 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 126


Investment (gross fixed):


29.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Public debt:


59.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34
58.1% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99
2.2% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


5.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 71
6.25% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


12.66% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63
13.02% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$2.708 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 113
$2.995 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$9.096 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 105
$9.279 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$7.701 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
$8.231 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, sugar beets, grapes;
meat, dairy products



Industries:


food processing, textiles and clothing; lumber, oil, cement,
chemicals, mining, basic metals, hydropower



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Electricity - production:


2.888 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


Electricity - consumption:


3.603 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


2.475 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


5,400 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Oil - consumption:


36,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Oil - exports:


749 bbl/day (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 122


Oil - imports:


24,080 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Oil - proved reserves:


199.1 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Natural gas - production:


30 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Natural gas - consumption:


30 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Natural gas - proved reserves:


849.5 million cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Current account balance:


-$1.245 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143
-$1.845 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$1.339 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144
$1.048 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


textiles and footwear; asphalt, metals and metallic ores, crude oil;
vegetables, fruits, tobacco



Exports - partners:


Italy 58.75%, Greece 9.69%, Austria 6.73%, China 5.68% (2009)



Imports:


$4.337 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126
$4.264 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, textiles, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Italy 29.94%, Greece 14.05%, Turkey 7.1%, Germany 6.9%, China 5.39%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$1.992 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98
$2.37 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.55 billion (2004)
country comparison to the world: 143


Exchange rates:


leke (ALL) per US dollar - 106.5 (2010), 94.979 (2009), 79.546
(2008), 92.668 (2007), 98.384 (2006)







Communications ::Albania




Telephones - main lines in use:


363,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 107


Telephones - mobile cellular:


4.162 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 102


Telephone system:


general assessment: despite new investment in fixed lines
teledensity remains low with roughly 10 fixed lines per 100 people;
mobile-cellular telephone use is widespread and generally effective;
combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is now exceeds
100 per 100 persons

domestic: offsetting the shortage of fixed line capacity,
mobile-cellular phone service has been available since 1996; by
2003, two companies were providing mobile services at a greater
teledensity than some of Albania's neighbors; Internet broadband
services initiated in 2005; Internet cafes are popular in Tirana and
have started to spread outside the capital

international: country code - 355; submarine cable provides
connectivity to Italy, Croatia, and Greece; the Trans-Balkan Line, a
combination submarine cable and land fiber-optic system, provides
additional connectivity to Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Turkey;
international traffic carried by fiber-optic cable and, when
necessary, by microwave radio relay from the Tirana exchange to
Italy and Greece (2009)



Broadcast media:


2 public television networks, one of which transmits by satellite to
Albanian-language communities in neighboring countries; more than 60
private television stations operating; many viewers can pick up
Italian and Greek TV broadcasts via terrestrial reception; cable TV
service is available; 2 public radio networks and roughly 50 private
radio stations; several international broadcasters are available
(2008)



Internet country code:


.al



Internet hosts:


15,098 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 117


Internet users:


1.3 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 90






Transportation ::Albania




Airports:


5 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 177


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 339 km; oil 207 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 896 km
country comparison to the world: 96
standard gauge: 896 km 1.435-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 18,000 km
country comparison to the world: 117
paved: 7,020 km

unpaved: 10,980 km (2002)



Waterways:


43 km (on the Bojana River) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 105


Merchant marine:


total: 25
country comparison to the world: 92
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 23, roll on/roll off 1

foreign-owned: 1 (Turkey 1)

registered in other countries: 4 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Panama 3)
(2010)



Ports and terminals:


Durres, Sarande, Shengjin, Vlore







Military ::Albania




Military branches:


Joint Force Command (includes Land, Naval, and Aviation Brigade
Commands), Joint Support Command (includes Logistic Command),
Training and Doctrine Command (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


19 years of age (2004)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 947,446

females age 16-49: 910,145 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 802,097

females age 16-49: 768,953 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 35,249

female: 31,855 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.49% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103






Transnational Issues ::Albania




Disputes - international:


the Albanian Government calls for the protection of the rights of
ethnic Albanians in neighboring countries, and the peaceful
resolution of interethnic disputes; some ethnic Albanian groups in
neighboring countries advocate for a "greater Albania," but the idea
has little appeal among Albanian nationals; the mass emigration of
unemployed Albanians remains a problem for developed countries,
chiefly Greece and Italy



Illicit drugs:


increasingly active transshipment point for Southwest Asian opiates,
hashish, and cannabis transiting the Balkan route and - to a lesser
extent - cocaine from South America destined for Western Europe;
limited opium and expanding cannabis production; ethnic Albanian
narcotrafficking organizations active and expanding in Europe;
vulnerable to money laundering associated with regional trafficking
in narcotics, arms, contraband, and illegal aliens









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Algeria  (Africa)

Introduction ::Algeria




Background:


After more than a century of rule by France, Algerians fought
through much of the 1950s to achieve independence in 1962. Algeria's
primary political party, the National Liberation Front (FLN), was
established in 1954 as part of the struggle for independence and has
largely dominated politics since. The Government of Algeria in 1988
instituted a multi-party system in response to public unrest, but
the surprising first round success of the Islamic Salvation Front
(FIS) in the December 1991 balloting spurred the Algerian army to
intervene and postpone the second round of elections to prevent what
the secular elite feared would be an extremist-led government from
assuming power. The army began a crackdown on the FIS that spurred
FIS supporters to begin attacking government targets, and fighting
escalated into an insurgency, which saw intense violence between
1992-98 resulting in over 100,000 deaths - many attributed to
indiscriminate massacres of villagers by extremists. The government
gained the upper hand by the late-1990s, and FIS's armed wing, the
Islamic Salvation Army, disbanded in January 2000. Abdelaziz
BOUTEFLIKA, with the backing of the military, won the presidency in
1999 in an election widely viewed as fraudulent, was reelected to a
second term in 2004, and overwhelmingly won a third term in 2009
after the government amended the constitution in 2008 to remove
presidential term limits. Longstanding problems continue to face
BOUTEFLIKA, including large-scale unemployment, a shortage of
housing, unreliable electrical and water supplies, government
inefficiencies and corruption, and the continuing activities of
extremist militants. The Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC) in 2006 merged with al-Qai'da to form al-Qai'da in the Lands
of the Islamic Maghreb, which has launched an ongoing series of
kidnappings and bombings targeting the Algerian Government and
Western interests.







Geography ::Algeria




Location:


Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Morocco
and Tunisia



Geographic coordinates:


28 00 N, 3 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 2,381,741 sq km
country comparison to the world: 11
land: 2,381,741 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 6,343 km

border countries: Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km,
Morocco 1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km



Coastline:


998 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 32-52 nm



Climate:


arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers along
coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high plateau;
sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in summer



Terrain:


mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow,
discontinuous coastal plain



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Chott Melrhir -40 m

highest point: Tahat 3,003 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium, lead, zinc



Land use:


arable land: 3.17%

permanent crops: 0.28%

other: 96.55% (2005)



Irrigated land:


5,690 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


14.3 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 6.07 cu km/yr (22%/13%/65%)

per capita: 185 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes; mudslides and
floods in rainy season



Environment - current issues:


soil erosion from overgrazing and other poor farming practices;
desertification; dumping of raw sewage, petroleum refining wastes,
and other industrial effluents is leading to the pollution of rivers
and coastal waters; Mediterranean Sea, in particular, becoming
polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion, and fertilizer runoff;
inadequate supplies of potable water



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)







People ::Algeria




Population:


34,586,184 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Age structure:


0-14 years: 25.4% (male 4,436,591/female 4,259,729)

15-64 years: 69.5% (male 11,976,965/female 11,777,618)

65 years and over: 5.1% (male 798,576/female 928,709) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 27.1 years

male: 26.8 years

female: 27.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.177% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Birth rate:


16.71 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121


Death rate:


4.66 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Net migration rate:


-0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132


Urbanization:


urban population: 65% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female

total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 26.75 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 81
male: 29.8 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 23.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 74.26 years
country comparison to the world: 98
male: 72.57 years

female: 76.04 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.76 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


21,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 1,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Nationality:


noun: Algerian(s)

adjective: Algerian



Ethnic groups:


Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%

note: almost all Algerians are Berber in origin, not Arab; the
minority who identify themselves as Berber live mostly in the
mountainous region of Kabylie east of Algiers; the Berbers are also
Muslim but identify with their Berber rather than Arab cultural
heritage; Berbers have long agitated, sometimes violently, for
autonomy; the government is unlikely to grant autonomy but has
offered to begin sponsoring teaching Berber language in schools



Religions:


Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%



Languages:


Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 69.9%

male: 79.6%

female: 60.1% (2002 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 13 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


4.3% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 98






Government ::Algeria




Country name:


conventional long form: People's Democratic Republic of Algeria

conventional short form: Algeria

local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash
Sha'biyah

local short form: Al Jaza'ir



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Algiers

geographic coordinates: 36 45 N, 3 03 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


48 provinces (wilayat, singular - wilaya); Adrar, Ain Defla, Ain
Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar, Bejaia, Biskra, Blida,
Bordj Bou Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef, Constantine, Djelfa,
El Bayadh, El Oued, El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma, Illizi, Jijel,
Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara, Medea, Mila, Mostaganem, M'Sila,
Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi, Relizane, Saida, Setif, Sidi
Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset, Tebessa, Tiaret,
Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen



Independence:


5 July 1962 (from France)



National holiday:


Revolution Day, 1 November (1954)



Constitution:


8 September 1963; revised 19 November 1976; effective 22 November
1976; revised 3 November 1988, 23 February 1989, 28 November 1996,
10 April 2002, and 12 November 2008



Legal system:


socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial review of
legislative acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed of
various public officials including several Supreme Court justices;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA (since 28 April 1999)
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; a November 2008 constitutional amendment separated the
position of head of government from that of the prime minister

head of government: President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA (since 28 April
1999)

cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
note - a November 2008 constitutional amendment abolished
presidential term limits; election last held on 9 April 2009 (next
to be held in April 2014)

election results: Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA was reelected president for a
third term; percent of vote - Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA 90.2%, Louisa
HANOUNE 4.2%, Moussa TOUATI 2.3%, Djahid YOUNSI 1.4%, Ali Fawzi
REBIANE less than 1%, Mohamed SAID less than 1%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Council of the Nation (upper
house; 144 seats; one-third of the members appointed by the
president, two-thirds elected by indirect vote to serve six-year
terms; the constitution requires half the Council to be renewed
every three years) and the National People's Assembly (lower house;
389 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: Council of the Nation - last held on 29 December 2009
(next to be held in December 2012); National People's Assembly -
last held on 17 May 2007 (next to be held in 2012)

election results: Council of the Nation - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - NA; National People's Assembly - percent of
vote by party - NA; seats by party - FLN 136, RND 61, MSP 52, PT 26,
RCD 19, FNA 13, other 49, independents 33;



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court



Political parties and leaders:


Ahd 54 [Ali Fauzi REBAINE]; Algerian National Front or FNA [Moussa
TOUATI]; National Democratic Rally (Rassemblement National
Democratique) or RND [Ahmed OUYAHIA]; National Liberation Front or
FLN [Abdelaziz BELKHADEM, secretary general]; National Reform
Movement or Islah [Ahmed ABDESLAM] (formerly MRN); Rally for Culture
and Democracy or RCD [Said SADI]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda
Movement [Fatah RABEI]; Socialist Forces Front or FFS [Hocine Ait
AHMED]; Society of Peace Movement or MSP [Boudjerra SOLTANI];
Workers Party or PT [Louisa HANOUNE]

note: a law banning political parties based on religion was enacted
in March 1997



Political pressure groups and leaders:


The Algerian Human Rights League or LADDH [Hocine ZEHOUANE]; SOS
Disparus [Nacera DUTOUR]



International organization participation:


ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, BIS, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA,
MONUSCO, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, OSCE
(partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Abdallah BAALI

chancery: 2118 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 265-2800

FAX: [1] (202) 667-2174



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador David D. PEARCE

embassy: 05 Chemin Cheikh Bachir, El-Ibrahimi, El-Biar 16000 Algiers

mailing address: B. P. 408, Alger-Gare, 16030 Algiers

telephone: [213] 770-08-2000

FAX: [213] 21-60-7355



Flag description:


two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white; a red,
five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over the two-color
boundary; the colors represent Islam (green), purity and peace
(white), and liberty (red); the crescent and star are also Islamic
symbols, but the crescent is more closed than those of other Muslim
countries because the Algerians believe the long crescent horns
bring happiness



National anthem:


name: "Kassaman" (We Pledge)

lyrics/music: Mufdi ZAKARIAH/Mohamed FAWZI

note: adopted 1962; ZAKARIAH wrote "Kassaman" as a poem while
imprisoned in Algiers by French colonial forces







Economy ::Algeria




Economy - overview:


Algeria's economy remains dominated by the state, a legacy of the
country's socialist post-independence development model. Gradual
liberalization since the mid-1990s has opened up more of the
economy, but in recent years Algeria has imposed new restrictions on
foreign involvement in its economy and largely halted the
privatization of state-owned industries. Hydrocarbons have long been
the backbone of the economy, accounting for roughly 60% of budget
revenues, 30% of GDP, and over 95% of export earnings. Algeria has
the eighth-largest reserves of natural gas in the world and is the
fourth-largest gas exporter. It ranks 16th in oil reserves. Thanks
to strong hydrocarbon revenues, Algeria has a cushion of $150
billion in foreign currency reserves and a large hydrocarbon
stabilization fund. In addition, Algeria's external debt is
extremely low at about 1% of GDP. Algeria has struggled to develop
industires outside of hydrocarbons in part because of high costs and
an inert state bureaucracy.The government's efforts to diversify the
economy by attracting foregin and domestic investment outside the
energy sector have done little to reduce high poverty and youth
unemployment rates. In 2010, Algeria began a five-year, $286 billion
development program to update the country's infrastructure and
provide jobs. The costly program will boost Algeria's economy in
2011 but worsen the country's budget deficit. Long-term economic
challenges include diversification from hydrocarbons, relaxing state
control of the economy, and providing adequate jobs for youger
Algerians.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$254.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48
$244.6 billion (2009 est.)

$239.4 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$159 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74
2.2% (2009 est.)

2.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$7,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126
$7,200 (2009 est.)

$7,100 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 8.3%

industry: 61.5%

services: 30.2% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


9.877 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 14%

industry: 13.4%

construction and public works: 10%

trade: 14.6%

government: 32%

other: 16% (2003 est.)



Unemployment rate:


9.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110
10.2% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


23% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.8%

highest 10%: 26.8% (1995)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


35.3 (1995)
country comparison to the world: 86


Investment (gross fixed):


27.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Public debt:


25.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95
20% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142
5.7% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 107
4% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


8% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117
8% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$79.07 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 36
$68.13 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$109.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50
$98.82 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$12.29 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89
$21.71 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits; sheep, cattle



Industries:


petroleum, natural gas, light industries, mining, electrical,
petrochemical, food processing



Industrial production growth rate:


4.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68


Electricity - production:


34.98 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Electricity - consumption:


28.34 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


Electricity - exports:


273 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


279 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


2.125 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Oil - consumption:


325,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Oil - exports:


1.891 million bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


Oil - imports:


14,320 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127


Oil - proved reserves:


13.42 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Natural gas - production:


86.5 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Natural gas - consumption:


26.83 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


Natural gas - exports:


59.67 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Natural gas - proved reserves:


4.502 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Current account balance:


$3.959 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33
-$4.185 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$52.66 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50
$43.69 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum, natural gas, and petroleum products 97%



Exports - partners:


US 23.2%, Italy 17.23%, Spain 10.83%, France 7.97%, Canada 7.65%,
Netherlands 5.19%, Turkey 4.22% (2009)



Imports:


$37.07 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
$39.1 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods



Imports - partners:


France 19.7%, China 11.72%, Italy 10.19%, Spain 8.13%, Germany
5.77%, Turkey 5.05% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$150.1 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11
$149.3 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$4.138 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116
$5.413 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$19.34 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$17.34 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$1.844 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
$1.644 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Algerian dinars (DZD) per US dollar - 76 (2010), 72.6474 (2009),
63.25 (2008), 69.9 (2007), 72.647 (2006)







Communications ::Algeria




Telephones - main lines in use:


2.576 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 51


Telephones - mobile cellular:


32.73 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 30


Telephone system:


general assessment: privatization of Algeria's telecommunications
sector began in 2000; three mobile cellular licenses have been
issued and, in 2005, a consortium led by Egypt's Orascom Telecom won
a 15-year license to build and operate a fixed-line network in
Algeria; the license will allow Orascom to develop high-speed data
and other specialized services and contribute to meeting the large
unfulfilled demand for basic residential telephony; Internet
broadband services began in 2003

domestic: a limited network of fixed lines with a teledensity of
less than 10 telephones per 100 persons is offset by the rapid
increase in mobile-cellular subscribership; in 2009, combined
fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity was roughly 100
telephones per 100 persons

international: country code - 213; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
the Middle East, and Asia; microwave radio relay to Italy, France,
Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and Tunisia;
participant in Medarabtel; satellite earth stations - 51 (Intelsat,
Intersputnik, and Arabsat) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-run Radio-Television Algerienne operates the broadcast media
and carries programming in Arabic, Berber dialects, and French; use
of satellite dishes is widespread, providing easy access to European
and Arab satellite stations; state-run radio operates several
national networks and roughly 40 regional radio stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.dz



Internet hosts:


572 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 176


Internet users:


4.7 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 49






Transportation ::Algeria




Airports:


143 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 39


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 57

over 3,047 m: 12

2,438 to 3,047 m: 28

1,524 to 2,437 m: 11

914 to 1,523 m: 5

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 86

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 19

914 to 1,523 m: 41

under 914 m: 23 (2010)



Heliports:


2 (2010)



Pipelines:


condensate 1,937 km; gas 14,648 km; liquid petroleum gas 2,933 km;
oil 7,579 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 3,973 km
country comparison to the world: 43
standard gauge: 2,888 km 1.435-m gauge (283 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 1,085 km 1.055-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 108,302 km
country comparison to the world: 39
paved: 76,028 km (includes 645 km of expressways)

unpaved: 32,274 km (2004)



Merchant marine:


total: 35
country comparison to the world: 80
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 8, chemical tanker 2, liquefied gas
9, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 3

foreign-owned: 12 (UK 12) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Djendjene, Jijel, Mostaganem, Oran,
Skikda







Military ::Algeria




Military branches:


People's National Army (Armee Nationale Populaire, ANP), Land Forces
(Forces Terrestres, FT), Navy of the Republic of Algeria (Marine de
la Republique Algerienne, MRA), Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya
al-Jaza'eriya, QJJ), Territorial Air Defense Force (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


19-30 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 18 months (6 months basic training, 12 months
civil projects) (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 10,113,472

females age 16-49: 9,959,693 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 8,481,036

females age 16-49: 8,508,245 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 365,503

female: 352,009 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.3% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 37






Transnational Issues ::Algeria




Disputes - international:


Algeria, and many other states, rejects Moroccan administration of
Western Sahara; the Polisario Front, exiled in Algeria, represents
the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic; Algeria's border with Morocco
remains an irritant to bilateral relations, each nation accusing the
other of harboring militants and arms smuggling; Algeria remains
concerned about armed bandits operating throughout the Sahel who
sometimes destabilize southern Algerian towns; dormant disputes
include Libyan claims of about 32,000 sq km still reflected on its
maps of southeastern Algeria and the FLN's assertions of a claim to
Chirac Pastures in southeastern Morocco



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 90,000 (Western Saharan Sahrawi,
mostly living in Algerian-sponsored camps in the southwestern
Algerian town of Tindouf)

IDPs: undetermined (civil war during 1990s) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Algeria is a transit country for men and women
trafficked from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and involuntary servitude; criminal
networks of sub-Saharan nationals in southern Algeria facilitate
transit by arranging transportation, forged documents, and promises
of employment

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Algeria is placed on the Tier 2
Watch List because it does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking, however, it is making
significant efforts to do so; in January 2009, the government
approved new legislation that criminalizes trafficking in persons
for the purposes of labor and sexual exploitation representing an
important step toward complying with international standards;
despite these efforts, the government did not show overall progress
in punishing trafficking crimes and protecting trafficking victims
and continued to lack adequate measures to protect victims and
prevent trafficking (2009)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@American Samoa  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::American Samoa




Background:


Settled as early as 1000 B.C., Samoa was "discovered" by European
explorers in the 18th century. International rivalries in the latter
half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which
Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago. The US formally
occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the
excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year.







Geography ::American Samoa




Location:


Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way
between Hawaii and New Zealand



Geographic coordinates:


14 20 S, 170 00 W



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 199 sq km
country comparison to the world: 215
land: 199 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes Rose Island and Swains Island



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


116 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual rainfall
averages about 3 m; rainy season (November to April), dry season
(May to October); little seasonal temperature variation



Terrain:


five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited coastal plains,
two coral atolls (Rose Island, Swains Island)



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Lata Mountain 964 m



Natural resources:


pumice, pumicite



Land use:


arable land: 10%

permanent crops: 15%

other: 75% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


typhoons common from December to March

volcanism: American Samoa experiences limited volcanic activity on
the Ofu and Olosega Islands, neither has erupted since the 19th
century



Environment - current issues:


limited natural fresh water resources; the water division of the
government has spent substantial funds in the past few years to
improve water catchments and pipelines



Geography - note:


Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater harbors in the South
Pacific Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough seas and protected by
peripheral mountains from high winds; strategic location in the
South Pacific Ocean







People ::American Samoa




Population:


66,432 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Age structure:


0-14 years: 33.4% (male 11,159/female 10,768)

15-64 years: 62.7% (male 20,848/female 20,271)

65 years and over: 3.9% (male 1,211/female 1,371) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 23.4 years

male: 23.3 years

female: 23.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.212% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Birth rate:


23.05 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Death rate:


4.09 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 209


Net migration rate:


-6.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Urbanization:


urban population: 92% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.061 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female

total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 9.91 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 152
male: 12.91 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 6.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 73.97 years
country comparison to the world: 104
male: 71.04 years

female: 77.08 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


3.22 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: American Samoan(s) (US nationals)

adjective: American Samoan



Ethnic groups:


native Pacific islander 91.6%, Asian 2.8%, white 1.1%, mixed 4.2%,
other 0.3% (2000 census)



Religions:


Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%, Protestant and
other 30%



Languages:


Samoan 90.6% (closely related to Hawaiian and other Polynesian
languages), English 2.9%, Tongan 2.4%, other Pacific islander 2.1%,
other 2%

note: most people are bilingual (2000 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 97%

male: 98%

female: 97% (1980 est.)



Education expenditures:


NA







Government ::American Samoa




Country name:


conventional long form: Territory of American Samoa

conventional short form: American Samoa

abbreviation: AS



Dependency status:


unincorporated and unorganized territory of the US; administered by
the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: Pago Pago

geographic coordinates: 14 16 S, 170 42 W

time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (territory of the US); there are no first-order administrative
divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are three
districts and two islands* at the second order; Eastern, Manu'a,
Rose Island*, Swains Island*, Western



Independence:


none (territory of the US)



National holiday:


Flag Day, 17 April (1900)



Constitution:


ratified on 2 June 1966; effective 1 July 1967



Legal system:


NA



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Barack H. OBAMA (since 20 January 2009);
Vice President Joseph R. BIDEN (since 20 January 2009)

head of government: Governor Togiola TULAFONO (since 7 April 2003)

cabinet: Cabinet made up of 12 department directors
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as American Samoa, do not vote in elections for US
president and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic
and Republican presidential primary elections; governor and
lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for
four-year terms (eligible for a second term); election last held on
4 and 18 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)

election results: Togiola TULAFONO reelected governor; percent of
vote - Togiola TULAFONO 56.5%, Afoa Moega LUTU 43.5%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Fono or Legislative Assembly consists of the Senate (18
seats; members are elected from local chiefs to serve four-year
terms)and the House of Representatives (21 seats; 20 members are
elected by popular vote and 1 is an appointed, nonvoting delegate
from Swains Island; members serve two-year terms)

elections: House of Representatives - last held on 4 November 2008
(next to be held in November 2010); Senate - last held on 4 November
2008 (next to be held in November 2012)

election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA; Senate - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - independents 18

note: American Samoa elects one nonvoting representative to the US
House of Representatives; election last held on 2 November 2010
(next to be held in November 2012); results - Eni F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA
reelected as delegate



Judicial branch:


High Court (chief justice and associate justices are appointed by
the US Secretary of the Interior)



Political parties and leaders:


Democratic Party [Oreta M. TOGAFAU]; Republican Party [Tautai A. F.
FAALEVAO]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Population Pressure LAS (addresses the growing population pressures)



International organization participation:


AOSIS, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC, UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (territory of the US)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (territory of the US)



Flag description:


blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is based on the fly
side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and white American bald
eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying two traditional
Samoan symbols of authority, a war club known as a "Fa'alaufa'i"
(upper; left talon), and a coconut fiber fly whisk known as a "Fue"
(lower; right talon); the combination of symbols broadly mimics that
seen on the US Great Seal and reflects the relationship between the
United States and American Samoa



National anthem:


name: "Amerika Samoa" (American Samoa)

lyrics/music: Mariota Tiumalu TUIASOSOPO/Napoleon Andrew
TUITELELEAPAGA

note: local anthem adopted 1950; as a territory of the United
States, "The Star-Spangled Banner" is official (see United States)







Economy ::American Samoa




Economy - overview:


American Samoa has a traditional Polynesian economy in which more
than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is
strongly linked to the US with which American Samoa conducts most of
its commerce. Tuna fishing and tuna processing plants are the
backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna the primary export.
The two tuna canneries account for 80% of employment. In late
September 2009, an earthquake and the resulting tsunami devastated
American Samoa and nearby Samoa, disrupting transportation and power
generation, and resulting in about 200 deaths. The US Federal
Emergency Management Agency is overseeing a relief program of nearly
$25 million. Transfers from the US Government add substantially to
American Samoa's economic well being. Attempts by the government to
develop a larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa's
remote location, its limited transportation, and its devastating
hurricanes. Tourism is a promising developing sector.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$575.3 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 212
$510.1 million (2003 est.)



GDP (official exchange rate):


$462.2 million (2005)



GDP - real growth rate:


3% (2003)
country comparison to the world: 119


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$8,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124
$5,800 (2005 est.)



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%



Labor force:


17,630 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 210


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 34%

industry: 33%

services: 33% (1990)



Unemployment rate:


29.8% (2005)
country comparison to the world: 176


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


NA%



Agriculture - products:


bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit, yams, copra,
pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock



Industries:


tuna canneries (largely supplied by foreign fishing vessels),
handicrafts



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


185 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Electricity - consumption:


172.1 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Oil - consumption:


4,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 209


Oil - imports:


4,140 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Exports:


$445.6 million (FY04 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Exports - commodities:


canned tuna 93%



Imports:


$308.8 million (FY04 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Imports - commodities:


raw materials for canneries 56%, food, petroleum products, machinery
and parts



Debt - external:


$NA



Exchange rates:


the US dollar is used







Communications ::American Samoa




Telephones - main lines in use:


10,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 200


Telephones - mobile cellular:


2,200 (2004)
country comparison to the world: 214


Telephone system:


general assessment: NA

domestic: good telex, telegraph, facsimile, and cellular telephone
services; domestic satellite system with 1 Comsat earth station

international: country code - 1-684; satellite earth station - 1
(Intelsat-Pacific Ocean)



Broadcast media:


3 television stations broadcasting; multi-channel pay-per-view
television services are available; about a dozen radio stations,
some of which are repeater stations (2009)



Internet country code:


.as



Internet hosts:


1,676 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 157


Internet users:


NA







Transportation ::American Samoa




Airports:


3 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 190


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 3

over 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 241 km (2008)
country comparison to the world: 205


Ports and terminals:


Pago Pago







Military ::American Samoa




Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 14,230

females age 16-49: 13,842 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 810

female: 796 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the US







Transnational Issues ::American Samoa




Disputes - international:


Tokelau periodically asserts claims to American Samoa's Swains
Island (Olohega), such as in its 2006 draft independence constitution









page last updated on December 8, 2010

======================================================================




@Andorra  (Europe)

Introduction ::Andorra




Background:


For 715 years, from 1278 to 1993, Andorrans lived under a unique
co-principality, ruled by French and Spanish leaders (from 1607
onward, the French chief of state and the Spanish bishop of Seu
d'Urgell). In 1993, this feudal system was modified with the titular
heads of state retained, but the government transformed into a
parliamentary democracy. For decades Andorra enjoyed its status as a
small refuge of fiscal and banking freedom and benefitted from
Spanish and French tourists attracted to the country's duty-free
shopping. The situation has changed in recent years as Andorra
started to tax foreign investment and other sectors. Tourism
accounts for over 80% of Andorra's gross domestic product.







Geography ::Andorra




Location:


Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain



Geographic coordinates:


42 30 N, 1 30 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 468 sq km
country comparison to the world: 194
land: 468 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


2.5 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


total: 120.3 km

border countries: France 56.6 km, Spain 63.7 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers



Terrain:


rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Riu Runer 840 m

highest point: Pic de Coma Pedrosa 2,946 m



Natural resources:


hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead



Land use:


arable land: 2.13%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 97.87% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


avalanches



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; overgrazing of mountain meadows contributes to soil
erosion; air pollution; wastewater treatment and solid waste disposal



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone
Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked; straddles a number of important crossroads in the
Pyrenees







People ::Andorra




Population:


84,525 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Age structure:


0-14 years: 15.5% (male 6,710/female 6,305)

15-64 years: 72.2% (male 31,604/female 28,925)

65 years and over: 12.3% (male 5,113/female 5,231) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 39.9 years

male: 40.2 years

female: 39.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.382% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166


Birth rate:


10.03 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Death rate:


6.21 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Urbanization:


urban population: 89% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: -0.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.066 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.09 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.99 male(s)/female

total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 3.84 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 207
male: 3.79 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 3.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 82.36 years
country comparison to the world: 4
male: 80.3 years

female: 84.55 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.34 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Andorran(s)

adjective: Andorran



Ethnic groups:


Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%, other 6% (1998)



Religions:


Roman Catholic (predominant)



Languages:


Catalan (official), French, Castilian, Portuguese



Literacy:


definition: NA

total population: 100%

male: 100%

female: 100%



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 11 years

female: 12 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


3.2% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 141






Government ::Andorra




Country name:


conventional long form: Principality of Andorra

conventional short form: Andorra

local long form: Principat d'Andorra

local short form: Andorra



Government type:


parliamentary democracy (since March 1993) that retains as its
chiefs of state a coprincipality; the two princes are the president
of France and bishop of Seu d'Urgell, Spain, who are represented in
Andorra by the coprinces' representatives



Capital:


name: Andorra la Vella

geographic coordinates: 42 30 N, 1 31 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


7 parishes (parroquies, singular - parroquia); Andorra la Vella,
Canillo, Encamp, Escaldes-Engordany, La Massana, Ordino, Sant Julia
de Loria



Independence:


1278 (formed under the joint suzerainty of the French Count of Foix
and the Spanish Bishop of Seu d'Urgel)



National holiday:


Our Lady of Meritxell Day, 8 September (1278)



Constitution:


Andorra's first written constitution was drafted in 1991; approved
by referendum 14 March 1993; effective 28 April 1993



Legal system:


based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial review of
legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: French Coprince Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by Christian FREMONT (since September 2008) and Spanish
Coprince Bishop Joan-Enric VIVES i Sicilia (since 12 May 2003);
represented by Nemesi MARQUES i Oste (since 30 July 2003)

head of government: Executive Council President Jaume BARTUMEU
Cassany (since 5 June 2009)

cabinet: Executive Council or Govern designated by the Executive
Council president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: Executive Council president elected by the General
Council and formally appointed by the coprinces for a four-year
term; election last held on 26 April 2009 (next to be held in
April-May 2013)

election results: Jaume BARTUMEU CASSANY elected executive council
president; percent of General Council vote - NA



Legislative branch:


unicameral General Council of the Valleys or Consell General de las
Valls (28 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote, 14 from
a single national constituency and 14 to represent each of the seven
parishes; to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 26 April 2009 (next to be held in
March-April 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - PS 45%, Reformist
Coaliton 32%, Andorra for Change 19%, Andorran Green 4%; seats by
party - PS 14, Reformist Coalition 11, Andorra for Change 3



Judicial branch:


Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal of the Courts or
Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of Andorra or Tribunal
Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council of Justice or
Consell Superior de la Justicia; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal
Constitucional



Political parties and leaders:


Andorra for Change [Juan Eusebio NOMEN CALVET]; Greens of Andorra
[Isabel LOZANO MUNOZ]; Liberal Party of Andorra or PLA [Joan GABRIEL
i ESTANY] (formerly Liberal Union or UL); New Center [Vicenc MATEU]
(formerly Andorran Democratic Center Party); Reformist Coalition
[Joan GABRIEL i ESTANY] (includes the Liberal Party and New Center);
Social Democratic Party or PS [Jaume BARTUMEU CASSANY] (formerly
part of National Democratic Group or AND)



Political pressure groups and leaders:


NA



International organization participation:


CE, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITU, OIF,
OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, Union Latina, UNWTO, WCO, WHO, WIPO,
WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Narcis CASAL Fonsdeviela

chancery: 2 United Nations Plaza, 27th Floor, New York, NY 10017

telephone: [1] (212) 750-8064

FAX: [1] (212) 750-6630



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US does not have an embassy in Andorra; the US Ambassador to
Spain is accredited to Andorra; US interests in Andorra are
represented by the US Consulate General's office in Barcelona
(Spain); mailing address: Paseo Reina Elisenda de Montcada, 23,
08034 Barcelona, Spain; telephone: [34] (93) 280-2227; FAX: [34]
(93) 280-6175



Flag description:


three vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red, with the
national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; the latter band
is slightly wider than the other two so that the ratio of band
widths is 8:9:8; the coat of arms features a quartered shield with
the emblems of (starting in the upper left and proceeding
clockwise): Urgell, Foix, Bearn, and Catalonia; the motto reads
VIRTUS UNITA FORTIOR (Strength United is Stronger); the flag
combines the blue and red French colors with the red and yellow of
Spain to show Franco-Spanish protection

note: similar to the flags of Chad and Romania, which do not have a
national coat of arms in the center, and the flag of Moldova, which
does bear a national emblem



National anthem:


name: "El Gran Carlemany" (The Great Charlemagne)

lyrics/music: Joan BENLLOCH i VIVO/Enric Marfany BONS

note: adopted 1921; the anthem provides a brief history of Andorra
in a first person narrative







Economy ::Andorra




Economy - overview:


Tourism, the mainstay of Andorra's tiny, well-to-do economy,
accounts for more than 80% of GDP. An estimated 11 million tourists
visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status for some
products and by its summer and winter resorts. Andorra's comparative
advantage eroded when the borders of neighboring France and Spain
opened, providing broader availability of goods and lower tariffs.
The banking sector, with its partial "tax haven" status, also
contributes substantially to the economy. Agricultural production is
limited - only 2% of the land is arable - and most food has to be
imported. The principal livestock activity is sheep raising.
Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars, and
furniture. Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is
treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs)
and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$4.22 billion (2008)
country comparison to the world: 166
$3.66 billion (2007)

$3.588 billion (2006)



GDP (official exchange rate):


$NA



GDP - real growth rate:


2.6% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 136
2% (2007 est.)

3.5% (2005 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$44,900 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 12
$42,500 (2007)

$38,800 (2005)



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%



Labor force:


42,220 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 193


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 0.5%

industry: 18.5%

services: 81% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


7% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 69
0% (2007)



Population below poverty line:


8% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.3% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 67
3.9% (2007)



Agriculture - products:


small quantities of rye, wheat, barley, oats, vegetables; sheep



Industries:


tourism (particularly skiing), cattle raising, timber, banking,
tobacco, furniture



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


NA kWh



Electricity - consumption:


NA kWh



Electricity - exports:


NA kWh



Electricity - imports:


NA kWh; note - most electricity supplied by Spain and France;
Andorra generates a small amount of hydropower



Exports:


$89.5 million (2008)
country comparison to the world: 195
$117.1 million (2007)



Exports - commodities:


tobacco products, furniture



Imports:


$1.801 billion (2008)
country comparison to the world: 154
$1.789 billion (2007)



Imports - commodities:


consumer goods, food, electricity



Debt - external:


$NA



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7179 (2009), 0.6827
(2008), 0.7306 (2007), 0.7964 (2006)







Communications ::Andorra




Telephones - main lines in use:


37,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 171


Telephones - mobile cellular:


64,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 191


Telephone system:


general assessment: NA

domestic: modern system with microwave radio relay connections
between exchanges

international: country code - 376; landline circuits to France and
Spain



Broadcast media:


1 public television station and 2 public radio stations; a few
commercial radio stations operating; good reception of radio and TV
broadcasts from stations in France and Spain (2008)



Internet country code:


.ad



Internet hosts:


26,773 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 100


Internet users:


67,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 170






Transportation ::Andorra




Roadways:


total: 320 km (2008)
country comparison to the world: 201






Military ::Andorra




Military branches:


no regular military forces, Police Service of Andorra (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 22,776 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 18,338

females age 16-49: 17,395 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 396

female: 350 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of France and Spain







Transnational Issues ::Andorra




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Angola  (Africa)

Introduction ::Angola




Background:


Angola is rebuilding its country after the end of a 27-year civil
war in 2002. Fighting between the Popular Movement for the
Liberation of Angola (MPLA), led by Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS, and the
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by
Jonas SAVIMBI, followed independence from Portugal in 1975. Peace
seemed imminent in 1992 when Angola held national elections, but
fighting picked up again by 1996. Up to 1.5 million lives may have
been lost - and 4 million people displaced - in the quarter century
of fighting. SAVIMBI's death in 2002 ended UNITA's insurgency and
strengthened the MPLA's hold on power. President DOS SANTOS held
legislative elections in September 2008 and, despite promising to
hold presidential elections in 2009, has since made a presidential
poll contingent on the drafting of a new constitution.







Geography ::Angola




Location:


Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Namibia
and Democratic Republic of the Congo



Geographic coordinates:


12 30 S, 18 30 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 1,246,700 sq km
country comparison to the world: 23
land: 1,246,700 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than twice the size of Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 5,198 km

border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,511 km (of
which 225 km is the boundary of discontiguous Cabinda Province),
Republic of the Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zambia 1,110 km



Coastline:


1,600 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool, dry
season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April)



Terrain:


narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Morro de Moco 2,620 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar, gold,
bauxite, uranium



Land use:


arable land: 2.65%

permanent crops: 0.23%

other: 97.12% (2005)



Irrigated land:


800 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


184 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.35 cu km/yr (23%/17%/60%)

per capita: 22 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on the plateau



Environment - current issues:


overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to
population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical
rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical
timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of
biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and
siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


the province of Cabinda is an exclave, separated from the rest of
the country by the Democratic Republic of the Congo







People ::Angola




Population:


13,068,161 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Age structure:


0-14 years: 43.5% (male 2,812,359/female 2,759,047)

15-64 years: 53.7% (male 3,496,726/female 3,382,440)

65 years and over: 2.7% (male 153,678/female 195,043) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 18 years

male: 18 years

female: 18 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.063% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


Birth rate:


43.33 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Death rate:


23.74 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1


Net migration rate:


1.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


Urbanization:


urban population: 57% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female

total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 178.13 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 1
male: 190.12 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 165.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 38.48 years
country comparison to the world: 223
male: 37.48 years

female: 39.52 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


6.05 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


2.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


190,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


11,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
sickness)

water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Angolan(s)

adjective: Angolan



Ethnic groups:


Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico (mixed European
and native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22%



Religions:


indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant 15% (1998
est.)



Languages:


Portuguese (official), Bantu and other African languages



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 67.4%

male: 82.9%

female: 54.2% (2001 est.)



Education expenditures:


2.6% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 160






Government ::Angola




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Angola

conventional short form: Angola

local long form: Republica de Angola

local short form: Angola

former: People's Republic of Angola



Government type:


republic; multiparty presidential regime



Capital:


name: Luanda

geographic coordinates: 8 50 S, 13 14 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


18 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Bengo, Benguela,
Bie, Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul, Cunene,
Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Malanje, Moxico,
Namibe, Uige, Zaire



Independence:


11 November 1975 (from Portugal)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 11 November (1975)



Constitution:


adopted by People's Assembly 25 August 1992



Legal system:


based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law; modified to
accommodate political pluralism and increased use of free markets;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
head of government

head of government: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
September 1979); Antonio Paulo KASSOMA was named prime minister by
MPLA on 26 September 2008

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by universal ballot for a five-year
term (eligible for a second consecutive or discontinuous term) under
the 1992 constitution; President DOS SANTOS was selected by the
party to take over after the death of former President Augustino
NETO(1979) under a one-party system and stood for reelection in
Angola's first multiparty elections on 29-30 September 1992 (next
were to be held in September 2009 but have been postponed)

election results: Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS 49.6%, Jonas SAVIMBI
40.1%, making a run-off election necessary; the run-off was never
held leaving DOS SANTOS in his current position as the president



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (220 seats;
members elected by proportional vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 5-6 September 2008 (next to be held in
September 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - MPLA 81.6%, UNITA
10.4%, PRS 3.2%, ND 1.2%, FNLA 1.1%, other 2.5%; seats by party -
MPLA 191, UNITA 16, PRS 8, FNLA 3, ND 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court and separate provincial courts (judges are appointed
by the president)



Political parties and leaders:


National Front for the Liberation of Angola or FNLA [Ngola KABANGU];
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola or UNITA [Isaias
SAMAKUVA] (largest opposition party); New Democracy Electoral Union
or ND [Quintino de MOREIRA]; Popular Movement for the Liberation of
Angola or MPLA [Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS] (ruling party in power
since 1975); Social Renewal Party or PRS [Eduardo KUANGANA]

note: nine other parties participated in the legislative election in
September 2008 but won no seats



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda or FLEC [N'zita
Henriques TIAGO, Antonio Bento BEMBE]

note: FLEC's small-scale armed struggle for the independence of
Cabinda Province persists despite the signing of a peace accord with
the government in August 2006



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OPEC,
SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Josefina Perpetua Pitra DIAKITE

chancery: 2108 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 785-1156

FAX: [1] (202) 785-1258

consulate(s) general: Houston, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Dan MOZENA

embassy: number 32 Rua Houari Boumedienne (in the Miramar area of
Luanda), Luanda

mailing address: international mail: Caixa Postal 6468, Luanda;
pouch: US Embassy Luanda, US Department of State, 2550 Luanda Place,
Washington, DC 20521-2550

telephone: [244] (222) 64-1000

FAX: [244] (222) 64-1232



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a centered
yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half a
cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle);
red represents liberty, black the African continent, the symbols
characterize workers and peasants



National anthem:


name: "Angola Avante" (Forward Angola)

lyrics/music: Manuel Rui Alves MONTEIRO/Rui Alberto Vieira Dias
MINGAO

note: adopted 1975







Economy ::Angola




Economy - overview:


Angola's high growth rate in recent years was driven by high
international prices for its oil. Angola became a member of OPEC in
late 2006 and in late 2007 was assigned a production quota of 1.9
million barrels a day (bbl/day), somewhat less than the 2-2.5
million bbl/day Angola's government had wanted. Oil production and
its supporting activities contribute about 85% of GDP. Diamond
exports contribute an additional 5%. Subsistence agriculture
provides the main livelihood for most of the people, but half of the
country's food is still imported. Increased oil production supported
growth averaging more than 15% per year from 2004 to 2008. A postwar
reconstruction boom and resettlement of displaced persons has led to
high rates of growth in construction and agriculture as well. Much
of the country's infrastructure is still damaged or undeveloped from
the 27-year-long civil war. Land mines left from the war still mar
the countryside, even though peace was established after the death
of rebel leader Jonas SAVIMBI in February 2002. Since 2005, the
government has used billions of dollars in credit lines from China,
Brazil, Portugal, Germany, Spain, and the EU to rebuild Angola's
public infrastructure. The global recession temporarily stalled
economic growth. Lower prices for oil and diamonds during the global
recession led to a contraction in GDP in 2009, and many construction
projects stopped because Luanda accrued $9 billion in arrears to
foreign construction companies when government revenue fell in 2008
and 2009. Angola abandoned its currency peg in 2009, and in November
2009 signed onto an IMF Stand-By Arrangement loan of $1.4 billion to
rebuild international reserves. Although consumer inflation declined
from 325% in 2000 to under 14% in 2010, Luanda has been unable to
reduce inflation below 10%. The Angolan kwanza depreciated again in
mid 2010, which, along with higher oil prices, should boost economic
growth in all sectors. Corruption, especially in the extractive
sectors, also is a major challenge.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$114.1 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66
$107.8 billion (2009 est.)

$108.7 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$85.81 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


5.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41
-0.9% (2009 est.)

13.4% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$8,700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117
$8,400 (2009 est.)

$8,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9.6%

industry: 65.8%

services: 24.6% (2008 est.)



Labor force:


7.977 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 85%

industry and services: 15% (2003 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA



Population below poverty line:


40.5% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 0.6%

highest 10%: 44.7% (2000)



Investment (gross fixed):


15.9% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


Public debt:


20.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
21.7% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


13.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 215
13.7% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


30% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 12
19.57% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


15.68% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66
12.53% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$8.74 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 74
$9.792 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$24.92 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
$29.04 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$17.52 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83
$22.06 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, manioc (tapioca),
tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock; forest products; fish



Industries:


petroleum; diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, feldspar, bauxite,
uranium, and gold; cement; basic metal products; fish processing;
food processing, brewing, tobacco products, sugar; textiles; ship
repair



Industrial production growth rate:


5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Electricity - production:


3.722 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


Electricity - consumption:


3.173 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


1.948 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


Oil - consumption:


70,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Oil - exports:


1.407 million bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Oil - imports:


28,090 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Oil - proved reserves:


13.5 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Natural gas - production:


680 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Natural gas - consumption:


680 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Natural gas - proved reserves:


271.8 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Current account balance:


$2.089 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41
-$1.668 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$51.65 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
$40.08 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


crude oil, diamonds, refined petroleum products, coffee, sisal, fish
and fish products, timber, cotton



Exports - partners:


China 35.65%, US 25.98%, France 8.83%, South Africa 4.13% (2009)



Imports:


$18.1 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74
$15.74 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
medicines, food, textiles, military goods



Imports - partners:


Portugal 18.71%, China 17.39%, US 8.51%, Brazil 8.22%, South Korea
6.72%, France 4.51%, Italy 4.28%, South Africa 4.02% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$16.89 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43
$13.64 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$17.98 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
$13.64 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$91.55 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34
$79.88 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$4.883 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$3.933 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


kwanza (AOA) per US dollar - 92.08 (2010), 79.328 (2009), 75.023
(2008), 76.6 (2007), 80.4 (2006)







Communications ::Angola




Telephones - main lines in use:


303,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 112


Telephones - mobile cellular:


8.109 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 73


Telephone system:


general assessment: limited system; state-owned telecom had monopoly
for fixed-lines until 2005; demand outstripped capacity, prices were
high, and services poor; Telecom Namibia, through an Angolan
company, became the first private licensed operator in Angola's
fixed-line telephone network; by 2010, the number of fixed-line
providers had expanded to 5; Angola Telecom established
mobile-cellular service in Luanda in 1993 and the network has been
extended to larger towns; a privately-owned, mobile-cellular service
provider began operations in 2001

domestic: only about two fixed-lines per 100 persons; combined
fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity about 65 telephones per
100 persons in 2009

international: country code - 244; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 29 (2009)



Broadcast media:


state controls all broadcast media with nationwide reach;
state-owned Televisao Popular de Angola (TPA) provides terrestrial
TV service on 2 channels; a third TPA channel is available via cable
and satellite; TV subscription services are available; state-owned
Radio Nacional de Angola (RNA) broadcasts on 5 stations; about a
half dozen private radio stations broadcast locally (2008)



Internet country code:


.ao



Internet hosts:


3,717 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 142


Internet users:


606,700 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 114






Transportation ::Angola




Airports:


193 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 32


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 31

over 3,047 m: 5

2,438 to 3,047 m: 9

1,524 to 2,437 m: 13

914 to 1,523 m: 4 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 162

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 4

1,524 to 2,437 m: 31

914 to 1,523 m: 78

under 914 m: 47 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2 km; oil 87 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 2,764 km
country comparison to the world: 62
narrow gauge: 2,641 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 51,429 km
country comparison to the world: 80
paved: 5,349 km

unpaved: 46,080 km (2001)



Waterways:


1,300 km (2010)
country comparison to the world: 55


Merchant marine:


total: 7
country comparison to the world: 125
by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 3, roll
on/roll off 1

foreign-owned: 1 (Spain 1)

registered in other countries: 15 (Bahamas 5, Liberia 1, Malta 7,
former Netherlands Antilles 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Cabinda, Lobito, Luanda, Namibe







Military ::Angola




Military branches:


Angolan Armed Forces (FAA): Army, Navy (Marinha de Guerra Angola,
MGA), Angolan National Air Force (Forca Aerea Nacional Angolana,
FANA) (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


20-45 years of age for compulsory and 18-45 years for voluntary
military service; conscript service obligation - 2 years; Angolan
citizenship required; minimum age for women volunteers is 20; the
MGA is entirely staffed with volunteers (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,991,424

females age 16-49: 2,893,898 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,506,489

females age 16-49: 1,451,427 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 151,237

female: 147,919 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.6% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 32






Transnational Issues ::Angola




Disputes - international:


Cabindan separatists continue to return to the Angolan exclave from
exile in neighboring states and Europe since the 2006 ceasefire and
peace agreement



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 12,615 (Democratic Republic of Congo)

IDPs: 61,700 (27-year civil war ending in 2002; 4 million IDPs
already have returned) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


used as a transshipment point for cocaine destined for Western
Europe and other African states, particularly South Africa









page last updated on January 13, 2011

======================================================================




@Anguilla  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Anguilla




Background:


Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650, Anguilla was
administered by Great Britain until the early 19th century, when the
island - against the wishes of the inhabitants - was incorporated
into a single British dependency along with Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Several attempts at separation failed. In 1971, two years after a
revolt, Anguilla was finally allowed to secede; this arrangement was
formally recognized in 1980 with Anguilla becoming a separate
British dependency.







Geography ::Anguilla




Location:


Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic
Ocean, east of Puerto Rico



Geographic coordinates:


18 15 N, 63 10 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 91 sq km
country comparison to the world: 226
land: 91 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about one-half the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


61 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 3 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds



Terrain:


flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Crocus Hill 65 m



Natural resources:


salt, fish, lobster



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
commercial salt ponds) (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


frequent hurricanes and other tropical storms (July to October)



Environment - current issues:


supplies of potable water sometimes cannot meet increasing demand
largely because of poor distribution system



Geography - note:


the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles







People ::Anguilla




Population:


14,766 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 222


Age structure:


0-14 years: 24.5% (male 1,815/female 1,725)

15-64 years: 67.8% (male 4,665/female 5,125)

65 years and over: 7.7% (male 534/female 572) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 33 years

male: 31.6 years

female: 34.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.215% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Birth rate:


13 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155


Death rate:


4.4 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Net migration rate:


13.54 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


Urbanization:


urban population: 100% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.032 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.9 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female

total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 3.49 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 212
male: 3.94 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 3.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 80.77 years
country comparison to the world: 18
male: 78.22 years

female: 83.39 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.75 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Anguillan(s)

adjective: Anguillan



Ethnic groups:


black (predominant) 90.1%, mixed, mulatto 4.6%, white 3.7%, other
1.5% (2001 census)



Religions:


Anglican 29%, Methodist 23.9%, other Protestant 30.2%, Roman
Catholic 5.7%, other Christian 1.7%, other 5.2%, none or unspecified
4.3% (2001 census)



Languages:


English (official)



Literacy:


definition: age 12 and over can read and write

total population: 95%

male: 95%

female: 95% (1984 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years

male: 11 years

female: 11 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


3.5% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 131






Government ::Anguilla




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Anguilla



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: The Valley

geographic coordinates: 18 13 N, 63 03 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Independence:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



National holiday:


Anguilla Day, 30 May (1967)



Constitution:


Anguilla Constitutional Order 1 April 1982; amended 1990



Legal system:


based on English common law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Alistair HARRISON (since 21 April 2009)

head of government: Chief Minister Hubert HUGHES (since 16 February
2010)

cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from among the
elected members of the House of Assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition usually appointed
chief minister by the governor



Legislative branch:


unicameral House of Assembly (11 seats; 7 members elected by direct
popular vote, 2 ex officio members, and 2 appointed; members serve
five-year terms)

elections: last held on 15 February 2010 (next to be held in 2015)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
AUM 4, AUF 2, APP 1



Judicial branch:


High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court)



Political parties and leaders:


Anguilla Progressive Party or APP [Roy ROGERS]; Anguilla Strategic
Alternative or ANSA [Edison BAIRD]; Anguilla United Front or AUF
[Osbourne FLEMING, Victor BANKS] (a coalition of the Anguilla
Democratic Party or ADP and the Anguilla National Alliance or ANA);
Anguilla United Movement or AUM [Hubert HUGHES]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


NA



International organization participation:


Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Flag description:


blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag;
the coat of arms depicts three orange dolphins in an interlocking
circular design on a white background with a turquoise-blue field
below; the white in the background represents peace; the blue base
symbolizes the surrounding sea, as well as faith, youth, and hope;
the three dolphins stand for endurance, unity, and strength



National anthem:


name: "God Bless Anguilla"

lyrics/music: Alex RICHARDSON

note: local anthem adopted 1981; as a territory of the United
Kingdom, "God Save the Queen" is official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Anguilla




Economy - overview:


Anguilla has few natural resources, and the economy depends heavily
on luxury tourism, offshore banking, lobster fishing, and
remittances from emigrants. Increased activity in the tourism
industry has spurred the growth of the construction sector
contributing to economic growth. Anguillan officials have put
substantial effort into developing the offshore financial sector,
which is small but growing. In the medium term, prospects for the
economy will depend largely on the tourism sector and, therefore, on
revived income growth in the industrialized nations as well as on
favorable weather conditions.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$175.4 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 217
$191.7 million (2008 est.)

$108.9 million (2004 est.)



GDP (official exchange rate):


$175.4 million (2009 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


-8.5% (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 214


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$12,200 (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 4%

industry: 18%

services: 78% (2002 est.)



Labor force:


6,049 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 218


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining: 4%

manufacturing: 3%

construction: 18%

transportation and utilities: 10%

commerce: 36%

services: 29% (2000 est.)



Unemployment rate:


8% (2002)
country comparison to the world: 87


Population below poverty line:


23% (2002)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5.3% (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


Central bank discount rate:


6.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 60
6.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


9.27% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99
9.51% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$19.03 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 186
$19.57 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$458.9 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 171
$470.6 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$529.6 million (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162
$447.7 million (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


small quantities of tobacco, vegetables; cattle raising



Industries:


tourism, boat building, offshore financial services



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


NA kWh



Current account balance:


-$42.87 million (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69


Exports:


$119.5 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Exports - commodities:


lobster, fish, livestock, salt, concrete blocks, rum



Imports:


$143 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 204


Imports - commodities:


fuels, foodstuffs, manufactures, chemicals, trucks, textiles



Debt - external:


$8.8 million (1998)
country comparison to the world: 192


Exchange rates:


East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

note: fixed rate since 1976







Communications ::Anguilla




Telephones - main lines in use:


6,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 209


Telephones - mobile cellular:


27,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 204


Telephone system:


general assessment: NA

domestic: modern internal telephone system

international: country code - 1-264; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
Islands to Trinidad; microwave radio relay to island of Saint
Martin/Sint Maarten (2007)



Broadcast media:


1 private television station; multi-channel cable TV subscription
services are available; about 10 radio stations, one of which is
government-owned (2007)



Internet country code:


.ai



Internet hosts:


271 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 186


Internet users:


3,700 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 207






Transportation ::Anguilla




Airports:


3 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 195


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 2

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 175 km
country comparison to the world: 209
paved: 82 km

unpaved: 93 km (2004)



Ports and terminals:


Blowing Point, Road Bay







Military ::Anguilla




Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,611 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,987

females age 16-49: 3,354 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 111

female: 111 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK







Transnational Issues ::Anguilla




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe









page last updated on December 29, 2010

======================================================================




@Antarctica  (Antarctica)

Introduction ::Antarctica




Background:


Speculation over the existence of a "southern land" was not
confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American commercial
operators and British and Russian national expeditions began
exploring the Antarctic Peninsula region and other areas south of
the Antarctic Circle. Not until 1840 was it established that
Antarctica was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands or
an area of ocean. Several exploration "firsts" were achieved in the
early 20th century, but generally the area saw little human
activity. Following World War II, however, there was an upsurge in
scientific research on the continent. A number of countries have set
up a range of year-round and seasonal stations, camps, and refuges
to support scientific research in Antarctica. Seven have made
territorial claims, but not all countries recognize these claims. In
order to form a legal framework for the activities of nations on the
continent, an Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies
nor gives recognition to existing territorial claims; signed in
1959, it entered into force in 1961.







Geography ::Antarctica




Location:


continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle



Geographic coordinates:


90 00 S, 0 00 E



Map references:


Antarctic Region



Area:


total: 14 million sq km

land: 14 million sq km (280,000 sq km ice-free, 13.72 million sq km
ice-covered) (est.)

note: fifth-largest continent, following Asia, Africa, North
America, and South America, but larger than Australia and the
subcontinent of Europe



Area - comparative:


slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US



Land boundaries:


0 km

note: see entry on Disputes - international



Coastline:


17,968 km



Maritime claims:


Australia, Chile, and Argentina claim Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)
rights or similar over 200 nm extensions seaward from their
continental claims, but like the claims themselves, these zones are
not accepted by other countries; 21 of 28 Antarctic consultative
nations have made no claims to Antarctic territory (although Russia
and the US have reserved the right to do so) and do not recognize
the claims of the other nations; also see the Disputes -
international entry



Climate:


severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation, and distance
from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West Antarctica
because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has the most
moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January along the
coast and average slightly below freezing



Terrain:


about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock, with
average elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters; mountain ranges
up to nearly 5,000 meters; ice-free coastal areas include parts of
southern Victoria Land, Wilkes Land, the Antarctic Peninsula area,
and parts of Ross Island on McMurdo Sound; glaciers form ice shelves
along about half of the coastline, and floating ice shelves
constitute 11% of the area of the continent



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m

highest point: Vinson Massif 4,897 m

note: the lowest known land point in Antarctica is hidden in the
Bentley Subglacial Trench; at its surface is the deepest ice yet
discovered and the world's lowest elevation not under seawater



Natural resources:


iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum and other
minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small
uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited; krill, finfish,
and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (ice 98%, barren rock 2%) (2005)



Natural hazards:


katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward from the high
interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the plateau;
cyclonic storms form over the ocean and move clockwise along the
coast; volcanism on Deception Island and isolated areas of West
Antarctica; other seismic activity rare and weak; large icebergs may
calve from ice shelf



Environment - current issues:


in 1998, NASA satellite data showed that the Antarctic ozone hole
was the largest on record, covering 27 million square kilometers;
researchers in 1997 found that increased ultraviolet light passing
through the hole damages the DNA of icefish, an Antarctic fish
lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion earlier was shown to harm
one-celled Antarctic marine plants; in 2002, significant areas of
ice shelves disintegrated in response to regional warming



Geography - note:


the coldest, windiest, highest (on average), and driest continent;
during summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface at the South
Pole than is received at the Equator in an equivalent period; mostly
uninhabitable







People ::Antarctica




Population:


no indigenous inhabitants, but there are both permanent and
summer-only staffed research stations

note: 29 nations, all signatory to the Antarctic Treaty, operate
through their National Antarctic Program a number of seasonal-only
(summer) and year-round research stations on the continent and its
nearby islands south of 60 degrees south latitude (the region
covered by the Antarctic Treaty); the population doing and
supporting science or engaged in the management and protection of
the Antarctic region varies from approximately 4,400 in summer to
1,100 in winter; in addition, approximately 1,000 personnel,
including ship's crew and scientists doing onboard research, are
present in the waters of the treaty region; peak summer
(December-February) population - 4,490 total; Argentina 667,
Australia 200, Australia and Romania jointly 13, Belgium 20, Brazil
40, Bulgaria 18, Chile 359, China 90, Czech Republic 20, Ecuador 26,
Finland 20, France 125, France and Italy jointly 60, Germany 90,
India 65, Italy 102, Japan 125, South Korea 70, NZ 85, Norway 44,
Peru 28, Poland 40, Russia 429, South Africa 80, Spain 50, Sweden
20, Ukraine 24, UK 217, US 1,293, Uruguay 70 (2008-2009); winter
(June-August) station population - 1,106 total; Argentina 176,
Australia 62, Brazil 12, Chile 114, China 29, France 26, France and
Italy jointly 13, Germany 9, India 25, Japan 40, South Korea 18, NZ
10, Norway 7, Poland 12, Russia 148, South Africa 10, Ukraine 12, UK
37, US 337, Uruguay 9 (2009); research stations operated within the
Antarctic Treaty area (south of 60 degrees south latitude) by
National Antarctic Programs: year-round stations - 40 total;
Argentina 6, Australia 3, Brazil 1, Chile 6, China 2, France 1,
France and Italy jointly 1, Germany 1, India 1, Japan 1, South Korea
1, NZ 1, Norway 1, Poland 1, Russia 5, South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, UK
2, US 3, Uruguay 1 (2009); a range of seasonal-only (summer)
stations, camps, and refuges - Argentina, Australia, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Brazil, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland,
France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand,
Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania (with Australia), Russia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, UK, US, and Uruguay (2008-2009); in
addition, during the austral summer some nations have numerous
occupied locations such as tent camps, summer-long temporary
facilities, and mobile traverses in support of research (May 2009
est.)







Government ::Antarctica




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Antarctica



Government type:


Antarctic Treaty Summary - the Antarctic region is governed by a
system known as the Antarctic Treaty System; the system includes: 1.
the Antarctic Treaty, signed on 1 December 1959 and entered into
force on 23 June 1961, which establishes the legal framework for the
management of Antarctica, 2. Recommendations and Measures adopted at
meetings of Antarctic Treaty countries, 3. The Convention for the
Conservation of Antarctic Seals (1972), 4. The Convention for the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (1980), and 5. The
Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty (1991);
the 33rd Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting was held in Punta del
Este, Uruguay in May 2010; at these periodic meetings, decisions are
made by consensus (not by vote) of all consultative member nations;
by April 2010, there were 48 treaty member nations: 28 consultative
and 20 non-consultative; consultative (decision-making) members
include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica as
national territory (some claims overlap) and 21 non-claimant
nations; the US and Russia have reserved the right to make claims;
the US does not recognize the claims of others; Antarctica is
administered through meetings of the consultative member nations;
decisions from these meetings are carried out by these member
nations (with respect to their own nationals and operations) in
accordance with their own national laws; the years in parentheses
indicate when a consultative member-nation acceded to the Treaty and
when it was accepted as a consultative member, while no date
indicates the country was an original 1959 treaty signatory;
claimant nations are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ,
Norway, and the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium,
Brazil (1975/1983), Bulgaria (1978/1998) China (1983/1985), Ecuador
(1987/1990), Finland (1984/1989), Germany (1979/1981), India
(1983/1983), Italy (1981/1987), Japan, South Korea (1986/1989),
Netherlands (1967/1990), Peru (1981/1989), Poland (1961/1977),
Russia, South Africa, Spain (1982/1988), Sweden (1984/1988), Ukraine
(1992/2004), Uruguay (1980/1985), and the US; non-consultative
members, with year of accession in parentheses, are - Austria
(1987), Belarus (2006), Canada (1988), Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984),
Czech Republic (1962/1993), Denmark (1965), Estonia (2001), Greece
(1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987), Monaco
(2008), Papua New Guinea (1981), Portugal (2010), Romania (1971),
Slovakia (1962/1993), Switzerland (1990), Turkey (1996), and
Venezuela (1999); note - Czechoslovakia acceded to the Treaty in
1962 and separated into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993;

claimant nations are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ,
Norway, and the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium,
Brazil (1975/1983), Bulgaria (1978/1998) China (1983/1985), Ecuador
(1987/1990), Finland (1984/1989), Germany (1979/1981), India
(1983/1983), Italy (1981/1987), Japan, South Korea (1986/1989),
Netherlands (1967/1990), Peru (1981/1989), Poland (1961/1977),
Russia, South Africa, Spain (1982/1988), Sweden (1984/1988), Ukraine
(1992/2004), Uruguay (1980/1985), and the US; non-consultative
members, with year of accession in parentheses, are - Austria
(1987), Belarus (2006), Canada (1988), Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984),
Czech Republic (1962/1993), Denmark (1965), Estonia (2001), Greece
(1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987), Monaco
(2008), Papua New Guinea (1981), Portugal (2010), Romania (1971),
Slovakia (1962/1993), Switzerland (1990), Turkey (1996), and
Venezuela (1999); note - Czechoslovakia acceded to the Treaty in
1962 and separated into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993;

Article 1 - area to be used for peaceful purposes only; military
activity, such as weapons testing, is prohibited, but military
personnel and equipment may be used for scientific research or any
other peaceful purpose; Article 2 - freedom of scientific
investigation and cooperation shall continue; Article 3 - free
exchange of information and personnel, cooperation with the UN and
other international agencies; Article 4 - does not recognize,
dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new claims shall be
asserted while the treaty is in force; Article 5 - prohibits nuclear
explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes; Article 6 - includes
under the treaty all land and ice shelves south of 60 degrees 00
minutes south and reserves high seas rights; Article 7 -
treaty-state observers have free access, including aerial
observation, to any area and may inspect all stations,
installations, and equipment; advance notice of all expeditions and
of the introduction of military personnel must be given; Article 8 -
allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own
states; Article 9 - frequent consultative meetings take place among
member nations; Article 10 - treaty states will discourage
activities by any country in Antarctica that are contrary to the
treaty; Article 11 - disputes to be settled peacefully by the
parties concerned or, ultimately, by the ICJ; Articles 12, 13, 14 -
deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among
involved nations; other agreements - some 200 recommendations
adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments;
a mineral resources agreement was signed in 1988 but remains
unratified; the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the
Antarctic Treaty was signed 4 October 1991 and entered into force 14
January 1998; this agreement provides for the protection of the
Antarctic environment through six specific annexes: 1) environmental
impact assessment, 2) conservation of Antarctic fauna and flora, 3)
waste disposal and waste management, 4) prevention of marine
pollution, 5) area protection and management and 6) liability
arising from environmental emergencies; it prohibits all activities
relating to mineral resources except scientific research; a
permanent Antarctic Treaty Secretariat was established in 2004 in
Buenos Aires, Argentina



Legal system:


Antarctica is administered through annual meetings - known as
Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meetings - which include consultative
member nations, non-consultative member nations, observer
organizations, and expert organizations; decisions from these
meetings are carried out by these member nations (with respect to
their own nationals and operations) in accordance with their own
national laws; more generally, access to the Antarctic Treaty area,
that is to all areas between 60 and 90 degrees south latitude, is
subject to a number of relevant legal instruments and authorization
procedures adopted by the states party to the Antarctic Treaty; note
- US law, including certain criminal offenses by or against US
nationals, such as murder, may apply extraterritorially; some US
laws directly apply to Antarctica; for example, the Antarctic
Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. section 2401 et seq., provides civil and
criminal penalties for the following activities unless authorized by
regulation of statute: the taking of native mammals or birds; the
introduction of nonindigenous plants and animals; entry into
specially protected areas; the discharge or disposal of pollutants;
and the importation into the US of certain items from Antarctica;
violation of the Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up
to $10,000 in fines and one year in prison; the National Science
Foundation and Department of Justice share enforcement
responsibilities; Public Law 95-541, the US Antarctic Conservation
Act of 1978, as amended in 1996, requires expeditions from the US to
Antarctica to notify, in advance, the Office of Oceans, Room 5805,
Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, which reports such plans
to other nations as required by the Antarctic Treaty; for more
information, contact Permit Office, Office of Polar Programs,
National Science Foundation, Arlington, Virginia 22230; telephone:
(703) 292-8030, or visit its website at www.nsf.gov







Economy ::Antarctica




Economy - overview:


Scientific undertakings rather than commercial pursuits are the
predominate human activity in Antarctica. Fishing off the coast and
tourism, both based abroad, account for Antarctica's limited
economic activity. Antarctic fisheries, targeting three main species
- Patagonian and Antarctic toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides and
D. mawsoni), mackerel icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari), and krill
(Euphausia superba) - reported landing 141,147 metric tons in
2008-09 (1 July - 30 June). (Estimated fishing is from the area
covered by the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine
Living Resources (CCAMLR), which extends slightly beyond the
Antarctic Treaty area.) Unregulated fishing, particularly of
Patagonian toothfish (also known as Chilean sea bass), is a serious
problem. The CCAMLR determines the recommended catch limits for
marine species. A total of 37,858 tourists visited the Antarctic
Treaty area in the 2008-09 Antarctic summer, down from the 46,265
visitors in 2007-2008 (estimates provided to the Antarctic Treaty by
the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO);
this does not include passengers on overflights). Nearly all of them
were passengers on commercial (nongovernmental) ships and several
yachts that make trips during the summer.







Communications ::Antarctica




Telephones - main lines in use:


0; note - information for US bases only (2001)
country comparison to the world: 231


Telephone system:


general assessment: local systems at some research stations

domestic: commercial cellular networks operating in a small number
of locations

international: country code - none allocated; via satellite
(including mobile Inmarsat and Iridium systems) to and from all
research stations, ships, aircraft, and most field parties (2007)



Internet country code:


.aq



Internet hosts:


7,765 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 135






Transportation ::Antarctica




Airports:


26 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 126


Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 26

over 3,047 m: 5

2,438 to 3,047 m: 5

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 9

under 914 m: 6 (2010)



Heliports:


53

note: all year-round and seasonal stations operated by National
Antarctic Programs stations have some kind of helicopter landing
facilities, prepared (helipads) or unprepared (2010)



Ports and terminals:


McMurdo Station; most coastal stations have sparse and intermittent
offshore anchorages; a few stations have basic wharf facilities



Transportation - note:


US coastal stations include McMurdo (77 51 S, 166 40 E) and Palmer
(64 43 S, 64 03 W); government use only except by permit (see Permit
Office under "Legal System"); all ships at port are subject to
inspection in accordance with Article 7, Antarctic Treaty; relevant
legal instruments and authorization procedures adopted by the states
parties to the Antarctic Treaty regulating access to the Antarctic
Treaty area to all areas between 60 and 90 degrees of latitude south
have to be complied with (see "Legal System"); The Hydrographic
Commission on Antarctica (HCA), a commission of the International
Hydrographic Organization (IHO), is responsible for hydrographic
surveying and nautical charting matters in Antarctic Treaty area; it
coordinates and facilitates provision of accurate and appropriate
charts and other aids to navigation in support of safety of
navigation in region; membership of HCA is open to any IHO Member
State whose government has acceded to the Antarctic Treaty and which
contributes resources or data to IHO Chart coverage of the area







Military ::Antarctica




Military - note:


the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a military nature,
such as the establishment of military bases and fortifications, the
carrying out of military maneuvers, or the testing of any type of
weapon; it permits the use of military personnel or equipment for
scientific research or for any other peaceful purposes







Transnational Issues ::Antarctica




Disputes - international:


the Antarctic Treaty freezes, and most states do not recognize, the
land and maritime territorial claims made by Argentina, Australia,
Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the United Kingdom (some
overlapping) for three-fourths of the continent; the US and Russia
reserve the right to make claims; no formal claims have been made in
the sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west; the
International Whaling Commission created a sanctuary around the
entire continent to deter catches by countries claiming to conduct
scientific whaling; Australia has established a similar preserve in
the waters around its territorial claim









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Antigua and Barbuda  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Antigua and Barbuda




Background:


The Siboney were the first to inhabit the islands of Antigua and
Barbuda in 2400 B.C., but Arawak Indians populated the islands when
COLUMBUS landed on his second voyage in 1493. Early settlements by
the Spanish and French were succeeded by the English who formed a
colony in 1667. Slavery, established to run the sugar plantations on
Antigua, was abolished in 1834. The islands became an independent
state within the British Commonwealth of Nations in 1981.







Geography ::Antigua and Barbuda




Location:


Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico



Geographic coordinates:


17 03 N, 61 48 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 442.6 sq km (Antigua 280 sq km; Barbuda 161 sq km)
country comparison to the world: 199
land: 442.6 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes Redonda, 1.6 sq km



Area - comparative:


2.5 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


153 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation



Terrain:


mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands, with some higher
volcanic areas



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Boggy Peak 402 m



Natural resources:


NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism



Land use:


arable land: 18.18%

permanent crops: 4.55%

other: 77.27% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Total renewable water resources:


0.1 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.005 cu km/yr (60%/20%/20%)

per capita: 63 cu m/yr (1990)



Natural hazards:


hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October); periodic droughts



Environment - current issues:


water management - a major concern because of limited natural fresh
water resources - is further hampered by the clearing of trees to
increase crop production, causing rainfall to run off quickly



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


Antigua has a deeply indented shoreline with many natural harbors
and beaches; Barbuda has a large western harbor







People ::Antigua and Barbuda




Population:


86,754 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Age structure:


0-14 years: 26.8% (male 11,660/female 11,303)

15-64 years: 66.6% (male 26,597/female 30,414)

65 years and over: 6.6% (male 2,456/female 3,202) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 30 years

male: 28.5 years

female: 31.4 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


Birth rate:


16.43 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


Death rate:


5.77 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173


Net migration rate:


2.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Urbanization:


urban population: 30% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.9% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.87 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female

total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 15.1 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 124
male: 17.41 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 12.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.26 years
country comparison to the world: 86
male: 73.27 years

female: 77.35 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.06 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s)

adjective: Antiguan, Barbudan



Ethnic groups:


black 91%, mixed 4.4%, white 1.7%, other 2.9% (2001 census)



Religions:


Anglican 25.7%, Seventh Day Adventist 12.3%, Pentecostal 10.6%,
Moravian 10.5%, Roman Catholic 10.4%, Methodist 7.9%, Baptist 4.9%,
Church of God 4.5%, other Christian 5.4%, other 2%, none or
unspecified 5.8% (2001 census)



Languages:


English (official), local dialects



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over has completed five or more years of
schooling

total population: 85.8%

male: NA

female: NA (2003 est.)



Education expenditures:


3.9% of GDP (2002)
country comparison to the world: 108






Government ::Antigua and Barbuda




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Antigua and Barbuda



Government type:


constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system of government
and a Commonwealth realm



Capital:


name: Saint John's

geographic coordinates: 17 07 N, 61 51 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*, Redonda*, Saint George,
Saint John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint Peter, Saint Philip



Independence:


1 November 1981 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day (National Day), 1 November (1981)



Constitution:


1 November 1981



Legal system:


based on English common law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Louisse LAKE-TACK (since 17 July
2007)

head of government: Prime Minister Winston Baldwin SPENCER (since 24
March 2004)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the governor general on
the advice of the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general chosen by
the monarch on the advice of the prime minister; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition usually appointed prime minister by
the governor general



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (17 seats; members
appointed by the governor general) and the House of Representatives
(17 seats; members are elected by proportional representation to
serve five-year terms)

elections: House of Representatives - last held on 12 March 2009
(next to be held in 2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - UPP 50.9%, ALP 47.2%,
BPM 1.1%; seats by party - UPP 9, ALP 7, BPM 1



Judicial branch:


Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court consisting of a High Court of
Justice and a Court of Appeal (based in Saint Lucia; two judges of
the Supreme Court are residents of the islands and preside over the
Court of Summary Jurisdiction); Magistrates' Courts; member of the
Caribbean Court of Justice



Political parties and leaders:


Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester Bryant BIRD]; Barbuda People's
Movement or BPM [Thomas H. FRANK]; Barbuda People's Movement for
Change [Arthur NIBBS]; Barbudans for a Better Barbuda [Ordrick
SAMUEL]; United Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin SPENCER] (a
coalition of three parties - Antigua Caribbean Liberation Movement
or ACLM, Progressive Labor Movement or PLM, United National
Democratic Party or UNDP)



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Antigua Trades and Labor Union or ATLU [William ROBINSON]; People's
Democratic Movement or PDM [Hugh MARSHALL]



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW,
PetroCaribe, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Deborah Mae LOVELL

chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone: [1] (202) 362-5122

FAX: [1] (202) 362-5225

consulate(s) general: Miami, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US does not have an embassy in Antigua and Barbuda; the US
Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda



Flag description:


red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based on the top edge of
the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal bands of black
(top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising sun in the black
band; the sun symbolizes the dawn of a new era, black represents the
African heritage of most of the population, blue is for hope, and
red is for the dynamism of the people; the "V" stands for victory;
the successive yellow, blue, and white coloring is also meant to
evoke the country's tourist attractions of sun, sea, and sand



National anthem:


name: "Fair Antigua, We Salute Thee"

lyrics/music: Novelle Hamilton RICHARDS/Walter Garnet Picart CHAMBERS

note: adopted 1967; as a Commonwealth country, in addition to the
national anthem, "God Save the Queen" serves as the royal anthem
(see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Antigua and Barbuda




Economy - overview:


Tourism continues to dominate Antigua and Barbuda's economy,
accounting for nearly 60% of GDP and 40% of investment. The
dual-island nation's agricultural production is focused on the
domestic market and constrained by a limited water supply and a
labor shortage stemming from the lure of higher wages in tourism and
construction. Manufacturing comprises enclave-type assembly for
export with major products being bedding, handicrafts, and
electronic components. Prospects for economic growth in the medium
term will continue to depend on tourist arrivals from the US,
Canada, and Europe and potential damages from natural disasters.
After taking office in 2004, the SPENCER government adopted an
ambitious fiscal reform program, and was successful in reducing its
public debt-to-GDP ratio from 120% to about 90% in 2008. However,
the global financial crisis that began in 2008, has led to a
significant increase in the national debt, which topped 130% at the
end of 2010. The Antiguan economy experienced solid growth from 2003
to 2007, reaching over 12% in 2006 driven by a construction boom in
hotels and housing associated with the Cricket World Cup, but growth
dropped off in 2008 with the end of the boom. In 2009, Antigua's
economy was severely hit by the global economic crisis, suffering
from the collapse of its largest financial institution and a steep
decline in tourism. This decline continued in 2010 as the country
struggled with a yawning budget deficit.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$1.433 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195
$1.494 billion (2009 est.)

$1.64 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.099 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


-4.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 210
-8.9% (2009 est.)

1.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$16,500 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
$17,400 (2009 est.)

$19,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 3.8%

industry: 22%

services: 74.3% (2002 est.)



Labor force:


30,000 (1991)
country comparison to the world: 204


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 7%

industry: 11%

services: 82% (1983)



Unemployment rate:


11% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Central bank discount rate:


6.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 69
6.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10.07% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
10.43% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$233.5 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 170
$266.7 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$1.186 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 157
$1.236 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.13 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147
$1.002 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas, coconuts, cucumbers, mangoes,
sugarcane; livestock



Industries:


tourism, construction, light manufacturing (clothing, alcohol,
household appliances)



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


110 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Electricity - consumption:


102.3 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 208


Oil - consumption:


5,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


Oil - exports:


219 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130


Oil - imports:


4,690 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 159


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 209


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Current account balance:


-$211 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Exports:


$84.3 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Exports - commodities:


petroleum products, bedding, handicrafts, electronic components,
transport equipment, food and live animals



Imports:


$522.8 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Imports - commodities:


food and live animals, machinery and transport equipment,
manufactures, chemicals, oil



Debt - external:


$359.8 million (June 2006)
country comparison to the world: 166


Exchange rates:


East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

note: fixed rate since 1976







Communications ::Antigua and Barbuda




Telephones - main lines in use:


37,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 172


Telephones - mobile cellular:


134,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 178


Telephone system:


general assessment: NA

domestic: good automatic telephone system

international: country code - 1-268; landing points for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) and the Global Caribbean Network (GCN)
submarine cable systems with links to other islands in the eastern
Caribbean extending from the British Virgin Islands to Trinidad;
satellite earth stations - 2; tropospheric scatter to Saba
(Netherlands) and Guadeloupe (France) (2007)



Broadcast media:


state-controlled Antigua and Barbuda Broadcasting Service (ABS)
operates 1 TV station; multi-channel cable TV subscription services
are available; 1 radio station operated by ABS; roughly 15 radio
stations, some broadcasting on multiple frequencies (2007)



Internet country code:


.ag



Internet hosts:


9,795 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 122


Internet users:


65,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 171






Transportation ::Antigua and Barbuda




Airports:


3 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 194


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 1,165 km
country comparison to the world: 181
paved: 384 km

unpaved: 781 km (2002)



Merchant marine:


total: 1,219
country comparison to the world: 9
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 53, cargo 703, carrier 6,
chemical tanker 4, container 412, liquefied gas 12, petroleum tanker
1, refrigerated cargo 9, roll on/roll off 16, vehicle carrier 2

foreign-owned: 1,186 (Albania 1, Colombia 1, Denmark 20, Estonia 20,
Germany 1050, Greece 5, Iceland 9, Isle of Man 2, Latvia 16,
Lithuania 4, Mexico 2, Netherlands 18, Norway 9, NZ 2, Poland 2,
Russia 3, Slovenia 1, Sweden 1, Switzerland 7, Turkey 7, US 6) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Saint John's







Military ::Antigua and Barbuda




Military branches:


Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force (including Antigua and
Barbuda Coast Guard) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 20,909

females age 16-49: 23,815 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 17,475

females age 16-49: 19,764 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 763

female: 758 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.5% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 161






Transnational Issues ::Antigua and Barbuda




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


considered a minor transshipment point for narcotics bound for the
US and Europe; more significant as an offshore financial center









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Arctic Ocean  (Oceans)

Introduction ::Arctic Ocean




Background:


The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five oceans (after
the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and the recently
delimited Southern Ocean). The Northwest Passage (US and Canada) and
Northern Sea Route (Norway and Russia) are two important seasonal
waterways. In recent years the polar ice pack has thinned allowing
for increased navigation and raising the possibility of future
sovereignty and shipping disputes among countries bordering the
Arctic Ocean.







Geography ::Arctic Ocean




Location:


body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America, mostly north
of the Arctic Circle



Geographic coordinates:


90 00 N, 0 00 E



Map references:


Arctic



Area:


total: 14.056 million sq km

note: includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara
Sea, Laptev Sea, Northwest Passage, and other tributary water bodies



Area - comparative:


slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US



Coastline:


45,389 km



Climate:


polar climate characterized by persistent cold and relatively narrow
annual temperature ranges; winters characterized by continuous
darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and clear skies;
summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and foggy
weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow



Terrain:


central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar icepack that,
on average, is about 3 meters thick, although pressure ridges may be
three times that thickness; clockwise drift pattern in the Beaufort
Gyral Stream, but nearly straight-line movement from the New
Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark Strait (between Greenland and
Iceland); the icepack is surrounded by open seas during the summer,
but more than doubles in size during the winter and extends to the
encircling landmasses; the ocean floor is about 50% continental
shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the remainder a central
basin interrupted by three submarine ridges (Alpha Cordillera,
Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonosov Ridge)



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Fram Basin -4,665 m

highest point: sea level 0 m



Natural resources:


sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules,
oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales)



Natural hazards:


ice islands occasionally break away from northern Ellesmere Island;
icebergs calved from glaciers in western Greenland and extreme
northeastern Canada; permafrost in islands; virtually ice locked
from October to June; ships subject to superstructure icing from
October to May



Environment - current issues:


endangered marine species include walruses and whales; fragile
ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from disruptions or
damage; thinning polar icepack



Geography - note:


major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea (northern access to the
Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait); strategic location between
North America and Russia; shortest marine link between the extremes
of eastern and western Russia; floating research stations operated
by the US and Russia; maximum snow cover in March or April about 20
to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean; snow cover lasts about 10
months









Economy ::Arctic Ocean




Economy - overview:


Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of natural
resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and seals.








Transportation ::Arctic Ocean




Ports and terminals:


Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe Bay (US)



Transportation - note:


sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes; the Northwest
Passage (North America) and Northern Sea Route (Eurasia) are
important seasonal waterways








Transnational Issues ::Arctic Ocean




Disputes - international:


the littoral states are engaged in various stages of demonstrating
the limits of their continental shelves beyond 200 nautical miles
from their declared baselines in accordance with Article 76,
paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;
record summer melting of sea ice in the Arctic has restimulated
interest in maritime shipping lanes and sea floor exploration









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Argentina  (South America)

Introduction ::Argentina




Background:


In 1816, the United Provinces of the Rio Plata declared their
independence from Spain. After Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay went
their separate ways, the area that remained became Argentina. The
country's population and culture were heavily shaped by immigrants
from throughout Europe, but most particularly Italy and Spain, which
provided the largest percentage of newcomers from 1860 to 1930. Up
until about the mid-20th century, much of Argentina's history was
dominated by periods of internal political conflict between
Federalists and Unitarians and between civilian and military
factions. After World War II, an era of Peronist populism and direct
and indirect military interference in subsequent governments was
followed by a military junta that took power in 1976. Democracy
returned in 1983 after a failed bid to seize the Falkland (Malvinas)
Islands by force, and has persisted despite numerous challenges, the
most formidable of which was a severe economic crisis in 2001-02
that led to violent public protests and the successive resignations
of several presidents.







Geography ::Argentina




Location:


Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
Chile and Uruguay



Geographic coordinates:


34 00 S, 64 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 2,780,400 sq km
country comparison to the world: 8
land: 2,736,690 sq km

water: 43,710 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than three-tenths the size of the US



Land boundaries:


total: 9,861 km

border countries: Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,261 km, Chile 5,308 km,
Paraguay 1,880 km, Uruguay 580 km



Coastline:


4,989 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in southwest



Terrain:


rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to rolling plateau
of Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western border



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Laguna del Carbon -105 m (located between Puerto San
Julian and Comandante Luis Piedra Buena in the province of Santa
Cruz)

highest point: Cerro Aconcagua 6,960 m (located in the northwestern
corner of the province of Mendoza)



Natural resources:


fertile plains of the pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper, iron ore,
manganese, petroleum, uranium



Land use:


arable land: 10.03%

permanent crops: 0.36%

other: 89.61% (2005)



Irrigated land:


15,500 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


814 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 29.19 cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%)

per capita: 753 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


San Miguel de Tucuman and Mendoza areas in the Andes subject to
earthquakes; pamperos are violent windstorms that can strike the
pampas and northeast; heavy flooding in some areas

volcanism: Argentina experiences volcanic activity in the Andes
Mountains along the Chilean border; Copahue (elev. 2,997 m, 9,833
ft) last erupted in 2000; other historically active volcanoes
include Llullaillaco, Maipo, Planchon-Peteroa, San Jose, Tromen,
Tupungatito, and Viedma



Environment - current issues:


environmental problems (urban and rural) typical of an
industrializing economy such as deforestation, soil degradation,
desertification, air pollution, and water pollution

note: Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse
gas targets



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation



Geography - note:


second-largest country in South America (after Brazil); strategic
location relative to sea lanes between the South Atlantic and the
South Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake
Passage); diverse geophysical landscapes range from tropical
climates in the north to tundra in the far south; Cerro Aconcagua is
the Western Hemisphere's tallest mountain, while Laguna del Carbon
is the lowest point in the Western Hemisphere







People ::Argentina




Population:


41,343,201 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


Age structure:


0-14 years: 25.6% (male 5,369,477/female 5,122,260)

15-64 years: 63.5% (male 12,961,725/female 13,029,265)

65 years and over: 10.8% (male 1,819,057/female 2,611,800) (2010
est.)



Median age:


total: 30.3 years

male: 29.2 years

female: 31.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.036% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


Birth rate:


17.75 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Death rate:


7.39 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 122


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118


Urbanization:


urban population: 92% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.052 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female

total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 11.11 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 148
male: 12.4 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 9.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 76.76 years
country comparison to the world: 66
male: 73.52 years

female: 80.17 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.33 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


120,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


7,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Argentine(s)

adjective: Argentine



Ethnic groups:


white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo (mixed white and
Amerindian ancestry), Amerindian, or other non-white groups 3%



Religions:


nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20% practicing), Protestant
2%, Jewish 2%, other 4%



Languages:


Spanish (official), Italian, English, German, French



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 97.2%

male: 97.2%

female: 97.2% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 16 years

male: 15 years

female: 17 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


4.9% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 71






Government ::Argentina




Country name:


conventional long form: Argentine Republic

conventional short form: Argentina

local long form: Republica Argentina

local short form: Argentina



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Buenos Aires

geographic coordinates: 34 36 S, 58 40 W

time difference: UTC-3 (3 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: none scheduled for 2010



Administrative divisions:


23 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 autonomous
city* (distrito federal); Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires Capital
Federal*, Catamarca, Chaco, Chubut, Cordoba, Corrientes, Entre Rios,
Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio
Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, Santiago del
Estero, Tierra del Fuego - Antartida e Islas del Atlantico Sur
(Tierra del Fuego), Tucuman

note: the US does not recognize any claims to Antarctica



Independence:


9 July 1816 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)



Constitution:


1 May 1853; amended many times starting in 1860



Legal system:


mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (since 10
December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10 December 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (since
10 December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10 December
2007)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held on 28 October 2007 (next election to be held in
2011)

election results: Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER elected president;
percent of vote - Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER 45%, Elisa CARRIO
23%, Roberto LAVAGNA 17%, Alberto Rodriguez SAA 8%



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate (72 seats; members are elected by direct vote; presently
one-third of the members elected every two years to serve six-year
terms) and the Chamber of Deputies (257 seats; members are elected
by direct vote; one-half of the members elected every two years to
serve four-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 28 June 2009 (next to be held in
2011); Chamber of Deputies - last held on 28 June 2009 (next to be
held in 2011)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA;
seats by bloc or party - FpV 8, ACyS 14, PJ disidente 2; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA; seats by bloc or
party - FpV 45, ACyS 42, PRO 20, PJ disidente 12, other 8; note - as
of 13 January 2009, the composition of the entire legislature is as
follows: Senate - seats by bloc or party - FpV 36, ACyS 23, PJ
disidente 9, other 4; Chamber of Deputies - seats by bloc or party -
FpV 113, ACyS 77, PRO 26, PJ disidente 17, other 24



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the Supreme Court judges are
appointed by the president with approval of the Senate)

note: the Supreme Court has seven judges; the Argentine Congress in
2006 passed a bill to gradually reduce the number of Supreme Court
judges to five



Political parties and leaders:


Civic and Social Accord or ACyS (a broad center-left
alliance-including the CC, UCR, and Socialist parties-created ahead
of the 2009 legislative elections); Civic Coalition or CC (a broad
coalition loosely affiliated with Elisa CARRIO); Dissident Peronists
or PJ Disidente (a sector of the Justicialist Party opposed to the
Kirchners); Front for Victory or FpV (a broad coalition, including
elements of the UCR and numerous provincial parties) [Cristina
FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER]; Interbloque Federal or IF (a broad coalition
of approximately 12 parties including PRO); Justicialist Party or PJ
[Daniel SCIOLI]; Radical Civic Union or UCR [Ernesto SANZ];
Republican Proposal or PRO [Mauricio MACRI] (including Federal
Recreate Movement or RECREAR [Esteban BULLRICH]; Socialist Party or
PS [Ruben GIUSTINIANI]; Union For All [Patricia BULLRICH]
(associated with the Civic Coalition); numerous provincial parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Argentine Association of Pharmaceutical Labs (CILFA); Argentine
Industrial Union (manufacturers' association); Argentine Rural
Confederation or CRA (small to medium landowners' association);
Argentine Rural Society (large landowners' association); Central of
Argentine Workers or CTA (a radical union for employed and
unemployed workers); General Confederation of Labor or CGT
(Peronist-leaning umbrella labor organization); White and Blue CGT
(dissident CGT labor confederation); Roman Catholic Church

other: business organizations; Peronist-dominated labor movement;
Piquetero groups (popular protest organizations that can be either
pro or anti-government); students



International organization participation:


AfDB (nonregional member), Australia Group, BCIE, BIS, CAN
(associate), FAO, FATF, G-15, G-20, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA,
Mercosur, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS, OPANAL,
OPCW, Paris Club (associate), PCA, RG, SICA (observer), UN, UNASUR,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina (observer),
UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant)

chancery: 1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 238-6400

FAX: [1] (202) 332-3171

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Vilma MARTINEZ

embassy: Avenida Colombia 4300, C1425GMN Buenos Aires

mailing address: international mail: use embassy street address; APO
address: US Embassy Buenos Aires, Unit 4334, APO AA 34034

telephone: [54] (11) 5777-4533

FAX: [54] (11) 5777-4240



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white, and light
blue; centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun with a
human face known as the Sun of May; the colors represent the clear
skies and snow of the Andes; the sun symbol commemorates the
appearance of the sun through cloudy skies on 25 May 1810 during the
first mass demonstration in favor of independence; the sun features
are those of Inti, the Inca god of the sun



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional Argentino" (Argentine National Anthem)

lyrics/music: Vicente LOPEZ y PLANES/Jose Blas PARERA

note: adopted 1813; Vicente LOPEZ was inspired to write the anthem
after watching a play about the 1810 May Revolution against Spain







Economy ::Argentina




Economy - overview:


Argentina benefits from rich natural resources, a highly literate
population, an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a
diversified industrial base. Although one of the world's wealthiest
countries 100 years ago, Argentina suffered during most of the 20th
century from recurring economic crises, persistent fiscal and
current account deficits, high inflation, mounting external debt,
and capital flight. A severe depression, growing public and external
indebtedness, and a bank run culminated in 2001 in the most serious
economic, social, and political crisis in the country's turbulent
history. Interim President Adolfo RODRIGUEZ SAA declared a default -
the largest in history - on the government's foreign debt in
December of that year, and abruptly resigned only a few days after
taking office. His successor, Eduardo DUHALDE, announced an end to
the peso's decade-long 1-to-1 peg to the US dollar in early 2002.
The economy bottomed out that year, with real GDP 18% smaller than
in 1998 and almost 60% of Argentines under the poverty line. Real
GDP rebounded to grow by an average 8.5% annually over the
subsequent six years, taking advantage of previously idled
industrial capacity and labor, an audacious debt restructuring and
reduced debt burden, excellent international financial conditions,
and expansionary monetary and fiscal policies. Inflation also
increased, however, during the administration of President Nestor
KIRCHNER, which responded with price restraints on businesses, as
well as export taxes and restraints, and beginning in early 2007,
with understating inflation data. Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER
succeeded her husband as President in late 2007, and the rapid
economic growth of previous years began to slow sharply the
following year as government policies held back exports and the
world economy fell into recession. The economy has rebounded from
the 2009 recession, but the government's continued reliance on
expansionary fiscal and monetary policies risks exacerbating already
high inflation, which remains under-reported by official statistics.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$596 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 24
$554.5 billion (2009 est.)

$571.6 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$351 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


7.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14
-3% (2009 est.)

5% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$14,700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76
$13,700 (2009 est.)

$14,100 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 8.5%

industry: 31.6%

services: 59.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


16.62 million
country comparison to the world: 36
note: urban areas only (2010 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 5%

industry: 23%

services: 72% (2009 est.)



Unemployment rate:


7.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
8.7% (2009 est.)

note: based on official data, which may understate unemployment



Population below poverty line:


30% (January-June 2010)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.2%

highest 10%: 32.6% (2009)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


45.7 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 38


Investment (gross fixed):


22% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Public debt:


50.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51
48.6% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


22% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 222
16% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA%



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


15.66% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
19.47% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$41.66 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 46
$35.33 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$112.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$85.18 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$113.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
$84.92 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$48.93 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 48
$52.31 billion (31 December 2008)

$86.68 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes, corn, tobacco, peanuts,
tea, wheat; livestock



Industries:


food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables, textiles,
chemicals and petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel



Industrial production growth rate:


6.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45


Electricity - production:


109.5 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Electricity - consumption:


99.21 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


Electricity - exports:


2.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


10.28 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


796,300 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Oil - consumption:


622,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Oil - exports:


314,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Oil - imports:


52,290 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Oil - proved reserves:


2.386 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


Natural gas - production:


41.36 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20


Natural gas - consumption:


43.14 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Natural gas - exports:


890 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Natural gas - imports:


2.66 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Natural gas - proved reserves:


398.4 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


Current account balance:


$6.976 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29
$11.29 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$68.01 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
$55.67 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


soybeans and derivatives, petroleum and gas, vehicles, corn, wheat



Exports - partners:


Brazil 18.78%, China 9.26%, Chile 7.11%, US 6.38% (2009)



Imports:


$52.61 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48
$37.14 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery, motor vehicles, petroleum and natural gas, organic
chemicals, plastics



Imports - partners:


Brazil 31.12%, US 13.69%, China 10.26%, Germany 4.69% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$53.61 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20
$48.03 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$128.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32
$118.4 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$86.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
$80.1 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$30.16 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38
$29.46 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Argentine pesos (ARS) per US dollar - 3.8983 (2010), 3.7101 (2009),
3.1636 (2008), 3.1105 (2007), 3.0543 (2006)







Communications ::Argentina




Telephones - main lines in use:


9.764 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 22


Telephones - mobile cellular:


51.891 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 22


Telephone system:


general assessment: the "Telecommunications Liberalization Plan of
1998" opened the telecommunications market to competition and
foreign investment encouraging the growth of modern
telecommunications technology; fiber-optic cable trunk lines are
being installed between all major cities; major networks are
entirely digital and the availability of telephone service is
improving

domestic: microwave radio relay, fiber-optic cable, and a domestic
satellite system with 40 earth stations serve the trunk network;
fixed-line teledensity is increasing gradually and mobile-cellular
subscribership is increasing rapidly; broadband Internet services
are gaining ground

international: country code - 54; landing point for the Atlantis-2,
UNISUR, South America-1, and South American Crossing/Latin American
Nautilus submarine cable systems that provide links to Europe,
Africa, South and Central America, and US; satellite earth stations
- 112; 2 international gateways near Buenos Aires (2009)



Broadcast media:


government owns a TV station and a radio network; more than 2 dozen
TV stations and hundreds of privately-owned radio stations; high
rate of cable TV subscription usage (2007)



Internet country code:


.ar



Internet hosts:


6.025 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 16


Internet users:


13.694 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 28






Transportation ::Argentina




Airports:


1,141 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 6


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 156

over 3,047 m: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 27

1,524 to 2,437 m: 65

914 to 1,523 m: 51

under 914 m: 9 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 985

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 43

914 to 1,523 m: 530

under 914 m: 410 (2010)



Heliports:


2 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 28,248 km; liquid petroleum gas 41 km; oil 5,977 km; refined
products 3,636 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 31,409 km
country comparison to the world: 8
broad gauge: 27,301 km 1.676-m gauge (94 km electrified)

standard gauge: 2,780 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 1,328 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 231,374 km
country comparison to the world: 22
paved: 69,412 km (includes 734 km of expressways)

unpaved: 161,962 km (2004)



Waterways:


11,000 km (2007)
country comparison to the world: 11


Merchant marine:


total: 43
country comparison to the world: 74
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 7, chemical tanker 4, container 1,
passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 23, refrigerated cargo 2

foreign-owned: 12 (Brazil 1, Chile 6, Spain 3, UK 2)

registered in other countries: 17 (Liberia 3, Panama 7, Paraguay 5,
Uruguay 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Arroyo Seco, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, La Plata, Punta Colorada,
Rosario, San Lorenzo-San Martin







Military ::Argentina




Military branches:


Argentine Army (Ejercito Argentino), Navy of the Argentine Republic
(Armada Republica; includes naval aviation and naval infantry),
Argentine Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Argentina, FAA) (2011)



Military service age and obligation:


18-24 years of age for voluntary military service (18-21 requires
parental permission); no conscription (2001)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 9,934,765

females age 16-49: 9,868,008 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 8,366,206

females age 16-49: 8,344,321 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 340,570

female: 323,953 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.8% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 146


Military - note:


the Argentine military is a well-organized force constrained by the
country's prolonged economic hardship; the country has recently
experienced a strong recovery, and the military is implementing a
modernization plan aimed at making the ground forces lighter and
more responsive (2008)







Transnational Issues ::Argentina




Disputes - international:


Argentina continues to assert its claims to the UK-administered
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), South Georgia, and the South
Sandwich Islands in its constitution, forcibly occupying the
Falklands in 1982, but in 1995 agreed no longer to seek settlement
by force; territorial claim in Antarctica partially overlaps UK and
Chilean claims; unruly region at convergence of
Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering,
smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising
for extremist organizations; uncontested dispute between Brazil and
Uruguay over Braziliera/Brasiliera Island in the Quarai/Cuareim
River leaves the tripoint with Argentina in question; in 2006,
Argentina went to the ICJ to protest, on environmental grounds, the
construction of two pulp mills in Uruguay on the Uruguay River,
which forms the boundary; both parties presented their pleadings in
2007 with Argentina's reply in January and Uruguay's rejoinder in
July 2008; the joint boundary commission, established by Chile and
Argentina in 2001 has yet to map and demarcate the delimited
boundary in the inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de
Hielo Sur)



Illicit drugs:


a transshipment country for cocaine headed for Europe, heroin headed
for the US, and ephedrine and pseudoephedrine headed for Mexico;
some money-laundering activity, especially in the Tri-Border Area;
law enforcement corruption; a source for precursor chemicals;
increasing domestic consumption of drugs in urban centers,
especially cocaine base and synthetic drugs (2008)









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Armenia  (Middle East)

Introduction ::Armenia




Background:


Armenia prides itself on being the first nation to formally adopt
Christianity (early 4th century). Despite periods of autonomy, over
the centuries Armenia came under the sway of various empires
including the Roman, Byzantine, Arab, Persian, and Ottoman. During
World War I in the western portion of Armenia, Ottoman Turkey
instituted a policy of forced resettlement coupled with other harsh
practices that resulted in an estimated 1 million Armenian deaths.
The eastern area of Armenia was ceded by the Ottomans to Russia in
1828; this portion declared its independence in 1918, but was
conquered by the Soviet Red Army in 1920. Armenian leaders remain
preoccupied by the long conflict with Azerbaijan over
Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily Armenian-populated region, assigned to
Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow. Armenia and Azerbaijan
began fighting over the area in 1988; the struggle escalated after
both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.
By May 1994, when a cease-fire took hold, ethnic Armenian forces
held not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of
Azerbaijan proper. The economies of both sides have been hurt by
their inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful
resolution. Turkey closed the common border with Armenia in 1994
because of the Armenian separatists' control of Nagorno-Karabakh and
surrounding areas, further hampering Armenian economic growth. In
2009, senior Armenian leaders began pursuing rapprochement with
Turkey, aiming to secure an opening of the border; this process is
currently dormant.







Geography ::Armenia




Location:


Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey



Geographic coordinates:


40 00 N, 45 00 E



Map references:


Middle East



Area:


total: 29,743 sq km
country comparison to the world: 142
land: 28,203 sq km

water: 1,540 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maryland



Land boundaries:


total: 1,254 km

border countries: Azerbaijan-proper 566 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave 221 km, Georgia 164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


highland continental, hot summers, cold winters



Terrain:


Armenian Highland with mountains; little forest land; fast flowing
rivers; good soil in Aras River valley



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Debed River 400 m

highest point: Aragats Lerrnagagat' 4,090 m



Natural resources:


small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, bauxite



Land use:


arable land: 16.78%

permanent crops: 2.01%

other: 81.21% (2005)



Irrigated land:


2,860 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


10.5 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 2.95 cu km/yr (30%/4%/66%)

per capita: 977 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


occasionally severe earthquakes; droughts



Environment - current issues:


soil pollution from toxic chemicals such as DDT; the energy crisis
of the 1990s led to deforestation when citizens scavenged for
firewood; pollution of Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the
draining of Sevana Lich (Lake Sevan), a result of its use as a
source for hydropower, threatens drinking water supplies; restart of
Metsamor nuclear power plant in spite of its location in a
seismically active zone



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants



Geography - note:


landlocked in the Lesser Caucasus Mountains; Sevana Lich (Lake
Sevan) is the largest lake in this mountain range







People ::Armenia




Population:


2,966,802 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137


Age structure:


0-14 years: 18.2% (male 289,119/female 252,150)

15-64 years: 71.1% (male 986,764/female 1,123,708)

65 years and over: 10.6% (male 122,996/female 192,267) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 31.9 years

male: 29.1 years

female: 34.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.016% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Birth rate:


12.74 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Death rate:


8.42 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Net migration rate:


-4.16 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Urbanization:


urban population: 64% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: -0.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.133 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.15 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.62 male(s)/female

total population: 0.89 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 19.5 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 102
male: 24.16 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 14.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 72.96 years
country comparison to the world: 118
male: 69.33 years

female: 77.07 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.36 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


2,400 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 135


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Nationality:


noun: Armenian(s)

adjective: Armenian



Ethnic groups:


Armenian 97.9%, Yezidi (Kurd) 1.3%, Russian 0.5%, other 0.3% (2001
census)



Religions:


Armenian Apostolic 94.7%, other Christian 4%, Yezidi (monotheist
with elements of nature worship) 1.3%



Languages:


Armenian (official) 97.7%, Yezidi 1%, Russian 0.9%, other 0.4% (2001
census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99.4%

male: 99.7%

female: 99.2% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 11 years

female: 12 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


3% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 147






Government ::Armenia




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Armenia

conventional short form: Armenia

local long form: Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun

local short form: Hayastan

former: Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, Armenian Republic



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Yerevan

geographic coordinates: 40 10 N, 44 30 E

time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


11 provinces (marzer, singular - marz); Aragatsotn, Ararat, Armavir,
Geghark'unik', Kotayk', Lorri, Shirak, Syunik', Tavush, Vayots'
Dzor, Yerevan



Independence:


21 September 1991 (from the Soviet Union)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 21 September (1991)



Constitution:


adopted by nationwide referendum 5 July 1995; amendments adopted
through a nationwide referendum 27 November 2005



Legal system:


based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Serzh SARGSIAN (since 9 April 2008)

head of government: Prime Minister Tigran SARGSIAN (since 9 April
2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 19 February 2008
(next to be held in February 2013); prime minister appointed by the
president based on majority or plurality support in parliament; the
prime minister and Council of Ministers must resign if the National
Assembly refuses to accept their program

election results: Serzh SARGSIAN elected president; percent of vote
- Serzh SARGSIAN 52.9%, Levon TER-PETROSSIAN 21.5%, Artur
BAGHDASARIAN 16.7%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly (Parliament) or Azgayin Zhoghov (131
seats; members elected by popular vote, 90 members elected by party
list and 41 by direct vote; to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 12 May 2007 (next to be held in the spring
of 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - HHK 33.9%, Prosperous
Armenia 15.1%, ARF (Dashnak) 13.2%, Rule of Law 7.1%, Heritage Party
6%, other 24.7%; seats by party - HHK 64, Prosperous Armenia 18, ARF
(Dashnak) 16, Rule of Law 9, Heritage Party 7, independent 17



Judicial branch:


Constitutional Court; Court of Cassation (Appeals Court)



Political parties and leaders:


Armenian National Congress or ANC (bloc of independent and
opposition parties) [Levon TER-PETROSSIAN]; Armenian National
Movement or ANM [Ararat ZURABIAN]; Armenian Revolutionary Federation
("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARIAN]; Heritage Party [Raffi
HOVHANNISIAN]; People's Party of Armenia [Stepan DEMIRCHIAN];
Prosperous Armenia [Gagik TSARUKIAN]; Republican Party of Armenia or
HHK [Serzh SARGSIAN]; Rule of Law Party (Orinats Yerkir) [Artur
BAGHDASARIAN]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Aylentrank (Impeachment Alliance) [Nikol PASHINIAN]; Yerkrapah Union
[Manvel GRIGORIAN]



International organization participation:


ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, CSTO, EAEC (observer), EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS (observer),
OIF (associate member), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Tatoul MARKARIAN

chancery: 2225 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 319-1976

FAX: [1] (202) 319-2982

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Marie L. YOVANOVITCH

embassy: 1 American Ave., Yerevan 0082

mailing address: American Embassy Yerevan, US Department of State,
7020 Yerevan Place, Washington, DC 20521-7020

telephone: [374](10) 464-700

FAX: [374](10) 464-742



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, and orange; the
color red recalls the blood shed for liberty, blue the Armenian
skies as well as hope, and orange the land and the courage of the
workers who farm it



National anthem:


name: "Mer Hayrenik""(Our Fatherland)

lyrics/music: Mikael NALBANDIAN/Barsegh KANACHYAN

note: adopted 1991; based on the anthem of the Democratic Republic
of Armenia (1918-1922) but with different lyrics







Economy ::Armenia




Economy - overview:


After several years of double-digit economic growth, Armenia faced a
severe economic recession with GDP declining more than 14% in 2009,
despite large loans from multilateral institutions. Sharp declines
in the construction sector and workers' remittances, particularly
from Russia, were the main reasons for the downturn. The economy
began to recover in 2010 with nearly 5% growth. Under the old Soviet
central planning system, Armenia developed a modern industrial
sector, supplying machine tools, textiles, and other manufactured
goods to sister republics, in exchange for raw materials and energy.
Armenia has since switched to small-scale agriculture and away from
the large agroindustrial complexes of the Soviet era. Armenia has
managed to reduce poverty, slash inflation, stabilize its currency,
and privatize most small- and medium-sized enterprises. Since the
breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, Armenia had made progress in
implementing some economic reforms, including privatization, price
reforms, and prudent fiscal policies, but geographic isolation, a
narrow export base, and pervasive monopolies in important business
sectors have made Armenia particularly vulnerable to the sharp
deterioration in the global economy and the economic downturn in
Russia. The conflict with Azerbaijan over the ethnic
Armenian-dominated region of Nagorno-Karabakh contributed to a
severe economic decline in the early 1990s and Armenia's borders
with Turkey remain closed until 2010, when Turkey and Armenia signed
an accord to reestablish diplomatic relations. Armenia is
particularly dependent on Russian commercial and governmental
support and most key Armenian infrastructure is Russian-owned and/or
managed, especially in the energy sector. The electricity
distribution system was privatized in 2002 and bought by Russia's
RAO-UES in 2005. Construction of a pipeline to deliver natural gas
from Iran to Armenia was completed in December 2008, and gas
deliveries are slated to expand due to the April 2010 completion of
the Yerevan Thermal Power Plant. Armenia has some mineral deposits
(copper, gold, bauxite). Pig iron, unwrought copper, and other
nonferrous metals are Armenia's highest valued exports. Armenia's
severe trade imbalance has been offset somewhat by international
aid, remittances from Armenians working abroad, and foreign direct
investment. Armenia joined the WTO in January 2003. The government
made some improvements in tax and customs administration in recent
years, but anti-corruption measures have been ineffective and the
current economic downturn has led to a sharp drop in tax revenue and
forced the government to accept large loan packages from Russia, the
IMF, and other international financial institutions. Armenia will
need to pursue additional economic reforms in order to regain
economic growth and improve economic competitiveness and employment
opportunities, especially given its economic isolation from two of
its nearest neighbors, Turkey and Azerbaijan.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$17.27 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 133
$16.5 billion (2009 est.)

$19.23 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$8.83 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
-14.2% (2009 est.)

6.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$5,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138
$5,600 (2009 est.)

$6,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 22%

industry: 46.6%

services: 31.4% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.481 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 46.2%

industry: 15.6%

services: 38.2% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


7.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Population below poverty line:


26.5% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.6%

highest 10%: 41.3% (2004)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


37 (2006)
country comparison to the world: 77
44.4 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


33.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


6.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176
3.4% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 56
7.25% (2 December 2008)

note: this is the Refinancing Rate, the key monetary policy
instrument of the Armenian National Bank



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


18.76% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32
17.05% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.131 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 138
$1.071 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$3.507 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130
$3.339 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.821 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127
$1.733 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$140.5 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 110
$176 million (31 December 2008)

$105 million (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


fruit (especially grapes), vegetables; livestock



Industries:


diamond-processing, metal-cutting machine tools, forging-pressing
machines, electric motors, tires, knitted wear, hosiery, shoes, silk
fabric, chemicals, trucks, instruments, microelectronics, jewelry
manufacturing, software development, food processing, brandy



Industrial production growth rate:


8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Electricity - production:


5.584 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Electricity - consumption:


4.776 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Electricity - exports:


451.3 million kWh; note - exports an unknown quantity to Georgia;
includes exports to Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaijan (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


418.7 million kWh; note - imports an unknown quantity from Iran
(2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207


Oil - consumption:


49,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139


Oil - imports:


45,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


Natural gas - consumption:


1.93 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Natural gas - imports:


1.93 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Current account balance:


-$1.138 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142
-$1.326 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$846 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158
$722.3 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


pig iron, unwrought copper, nonferrous metals, diamonds, mineral
products, foodstuffs, energy



Exports - partners:


Germany 16.47%, Russia 15.45%, US 9.64%, Bulgaria 8.6%, Georgia
7.57%, Netherlands 7.48%, Belgium 6.71%, Canada 4.91% (2009)



Imports:


$2.988 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140
$2.817 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


natural gas, petroleum, tobacco products, foodstuffs, diamonds



Imports - partners:


Russia 24.02%, China 8.72%, Ukraine 6.15%, Turkey 5.39%, Germany
5.36%, Iran 4.07% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$2.247 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94
$2.004 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$5.227 billion (30 June 2010)
country comparison to the world: 103
$3.449 billion (31 December 2008)



Exchange rates:


drams (AMD) per US dollar - 374.29 (2010), 363.28 (2009), 303.93
(2008), 344.06 (2007), 414.69 (2006)







Communications ::Armenia




Telephones - main lines in use:


630,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 92


Telephones - mobile cellular:


2.62 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 120


Telephone system:


general assessment: telecommunications investments have made major
inroads in modernizing and upgrading the outdated telecommunications
network inherited from the Soviet era; now 100% privately owned and
undergoing modernization and expansion; mobile-cellular services
monopoly terminated in late 2004 and a second provider began
operations in mid-2005

domestic: reliable modern fixed-line and mobile-cellular services
are available across Yerevan in major cities and towns; significant
but ever-shrinking gaps remain in mobile-cellular coverage in rural
areas

international: country code - 374; Yerevan is connected to the
Trans-Asia-Europe fiber-optic cable through Iran; additional
international service is available by microwave radio relay and
landline connections to the other countries of the Commonwealth of
Independent States, through the Moscow international switch, and by
satellite to the rest of the world; satellite earth stations - 3
(2008)



Broadcast media:


2 public television networks operating alongside more than 40
privately-owned television stations that provide local to near
nationwide coverage; major Russian broadcast stations are widely
available; subscription cable TV services are available in most
regions; Public Radio of Armenia is a national, state-run broadcast
network that operates alongside about 20 privately-owned radio
stations; several major international broadcasters are available
(2008)



Internet country code:


.am



Internet hosts:


65,279 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 83


Internet users:


208,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 138






Transportation ::Armenia




Airports:


11 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 153


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 10

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,233 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 845 km
country comparison to the world: 99
broad gauge: 845 km 1.520-m gauge (818 km electrified)

note: some lines are out of service (2008)



Roadways:


total: 8,888 km
country comparison to the world: 139
paved: 7,079 km (includes 1,561 km of expressways)

unpaved: 1,809 km (2008)







Military ::Armenia




Military branches:


Armenian Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Air Force and Air Defense;
"Nagorno-Karabakh Republic": Nagorno-Karabakh Self Defense Force
(NKSDF) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-27 years of age for voluntary or compulsory military service;
2-year conscript service obligation (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 809,293

females age 16-49: 862,679 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 644,195

females age 16-49: 724,085 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 24,611

female: 22,682 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.8% of GDP (2010)
country comparison to the world: 49






Transnational Issues ::Armenia




Disputes - international:


Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh
and since the early 1990s, has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan
- Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
continues to mediate dispute; over 800,000 mostly ethnic
Azerbaijanis were driven from the occupied lands and Armenia; about
230,000 ethnic Armenians were driven from their homes in Azerbaijan
into Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route
through Armenia to connect to Naxcivan exclave; border with Turkey
remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh dispute; ethnic Armenian groups
in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater autonomy; Armenians
continue to emigrate, primarily to Russia, seeking employment



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 113,295 (Azerbaijan)

IDPs: 8,400 (conflict with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh,
majority have returned home since 1994 ceasefire) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


illicit cultivation of small amount of cannabis for domestic
consumption; minor transit point for illicit drugs - mostly opium
and hashish - moving from Southwest Asia to Russia and to a lesser
extent the rest of Europe









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Aruba  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Aruba




Background:


Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499, Aruba was acquired by the
Dutch in 1636. The island's economy has been dominated by three main
industries. A 19th century gold rush was followed by prosperity
brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil refinery. The last
decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the tourism industry.
Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986 and became a
separate, autonomous member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba's request in
1990.







Geography ::Aruba




Location:


Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela



Geographic coordinates:


12 30 N, 69 58 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 180 sq km
country comparison to the world: 217
land: 180 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


68.5 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm



Climate:


tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation



Terrain:


flat with a few hills; scant vegetation



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Ceru Jamanota 188 m



Natural resources:


NEGL; white sandy beaches



Land use:


arable land: 10.53%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 89.47% (2005)



Irrigated land:


0.01 sq km (1998 est.)



Natural hazards:


hurricanes; lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt and is rarely
threatened



Environment - current issues:


NA



Geography - note:


a flat, riverless island renowned for its white sand beaches; its
tropical climate is moderated by constant trade winds from the
Atlantic Ocean; the temperature is almost constant at about 27
degrees Celsius (81 degrees Fahrenheit)







People ::Aruba




Population:


104,589
country comparison to the world: 192
note: estimate based on a revision of the base population,
fertility, and mortality numbers, as well as a revision of 1985-99
migration estimates from outmigration to inmigration, which is
assumed to continue into the future; the new results are consistent
with the 2000 census (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 19.1% (male 9,921/female 9,758)

15-64 years: 70.3% (male 34,676/female 37,752)

65 years and over: 10.6% (male 4,351/female 6,607) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 38 years

male: 36.2 years

female: 39.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.457% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Birth rate:


12.77 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157


Death rate:


7.76 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Net migration rate:


9.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9


Urbanization:


urban population: 47% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.021 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female

total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 13.34 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 131
male: 17.65 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 8.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.51 years
country comparison to the world: 82
male: 72.47 years

female: 78.61 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.85 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Aruban(s)

adjective: Aruban; Dutch



Ethnic groups:


mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%, other 20%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 80.8%, Evangelist 4.1%, Protestant 2.5%, Jehovah's
Witnesses 1.5%, Methodist 1.2%, Jewish 0.2%, other 5.1%, none or
unspecified 4.6%



Languages:


Papiamento (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect) 66.3%,
Spanish 12.6%, English (widely spoken) 7.7%, Dutch (official) 5.8%,
other 2.2%, unspecified or unknown 5.3% (2000 census)



Literacy:


definition: NA

total population: 97.3%

male: 97.5%

female: 97.1% (2000 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


4.9% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 74






Government ::Aruba




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Aruba



Dependency status:


constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full autonomy
in internal affairs obtained in 1986 upon separation from the
Netherlands Antilles; Dutch Government responsible for defense and
foreign affairs



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Oranjestad

geographic coordinates: 12 31 N, 70 02 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)



Independence:


none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)



National holiday:


Flag Day, 18 March (1976)



Constitution:


1 January 1986



Legal system:


based on Dutch civil law system with some English common law
influence



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands (since 30 April
1980); represented by Governor General Fredis REFUNJOL (since 11 May
2004)

head of government: Prime Minister Michiel Godfried (Mike) EMAN
(since 30 October 2009)

cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the Staten
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed
for a six-year term by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime
minister elected by the Staten for four-year terms; election last
held in 2009 (next to be held by 2013)

election results: Mike EMAN elected prime minister; percent of
legislative vote - NA



Legislative branch:


unicameral Legislature or Staten (21 seats; members elected by
direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 25 September 2009 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - AVP 48%, MEP 35.9%, PDR
5.7%; seats by party - AVP 12, MEP 8, PDR 1



Judicial branch:


Common Court of Justice, Joint High Court of Justice (judges
appointed by the monarch)



Political parties and leaders:


Aliansa/Aruban Social Movement or MSA [Robert WEVER]; Aruban Liberal
Organization or OLA [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic Movement or
MPA [Monica ARENDS-KOCK]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA [Benny
NISBET]; Aruban People's Party or AVP [Mike EMAN]; People's
Electoral Movement Party or MEP [Nelson O. ODUBER]; Real Democracy
or PDR [Andin BIKKER]; RED [Rudy LAMPE]; Workers Political Platform
or PTT [Gregorio WOLFF]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: environmental groups



International organization participation:


Caricom (observer), FATF, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITUC, UNESCO
(associate), UNWTO (associate), UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands); note - Mr.
Henry BAARH, Minister Plenipotentiary for Aruba at the Embassy of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US does not have an embassy in Aruba; the Consul General to
Curacao is accredited to Aruba



Flag description:


blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes across the lower
portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the upper
hoist-side corner; the star represents Aruba and its red soil and
white beaches, its four points the four major languages (Papiamento,
Dutch, Spanish, English) as well as the four points of a compass, to
indicate that its inhabitants come from all over the world; the blue
symbolizes Caribbean waters and skies; the stripes represent the
island's two main "industries": the flow of tourists to the
sun-drenched beaches and the flow of minerals from the earth



National anthem:


name: "Aruba Deshi Tera" (Aruba Precious Country)

lyrics/music: Juan Chabaya 'Padu' LAMPE/Rufo Inocencio WEVER

note: local anthem adopted 1986; as part of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands, "Het Wilhelmus" is official (see Netherlands)







Economy ::Aruba




Economy - overview:


Tourism is the mainstay of the small open Aruban economy, together
with offshore banking. Oil refining and storage ended in 2009. The
rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has resulted
in a substantial expansion of other activities. Over 1.5 million
tourists per year visit Aruba with 75% of those from the US.
Construction continues to boom with hotel capacity five times the
1985 level. Tourist arrivals rebounded strongly following a dip
after the 11 September 2001 attacks. The government has made cutting
the budget and trade deficits a high priority.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.258 billion (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181
$2.205 billion (2004 est.)



GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.258 billion (2005 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2.4% (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 141


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$21,800 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 0.4%

industry: 33.3%

services: 66.3% (2002 est.)



Labor force:


41,500 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%

note: most employment is in wholesale and retail trade and repair,
followed by hotels and restaurants; oil refining



Unemployment rate:


6.9% (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Public debt:


46.3% of GDP (2005)
country comparison to the world: 57


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3.4% (2005)
country comparison to the world: 100


Central bank discount rate:


3% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 85
5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10.77% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
11.23% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$865 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 140
$781 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$1.771 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 146
$1.671 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.333 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 140
$1.321 billion (31 December 2008)



Agriculture - products:


aloes; livestock; fish



Industries:


tourism, transshipment facilities



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


850 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147


Electricity - consumption:


790.5 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


2,235 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 102


Oil - consumption:


8,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155


Oil - exports:


231,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Oil - imports:


236,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 208


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Exports:


$124 million (2006); note - includes oil reexports
country comparison to the world: 188


Exports - commodities:


live animals and animal products, art and collectibles, machinery
and electrical equipment, transport equipment



Exports - partners:


Panama 23.84%, Netherlands Antilles 20.49%, Colombia 17.48%,
Venezuela 12.61%, US 9.12%, Netherlands 7.5% (2009)



Imports:


$1.054 billion (2006)
country comparison to the world: 169


Imports - commodities:


machinery and electrical equipment, crude oil for refining and
reexport, chemicals; foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


US 49.51%, Netherlands 16.15%, UK 4.94% (2009)



Debt - external:


$478.6 million (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


Exchange rates:


Aruban guilders/florins (AWG) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.79
(2006), 1.79 (2005), 1.79 (2004), 1.79 (2003)







Communications ::Aruba




Telephones - main lines in use:


38,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 169


Telephones - mobile cellular:


128,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 180


Telephone system:


general assessment: modern fully automatic telecommunications system

domestic: increased competition through privatization; 3
mobile-cellular service providers are now licensed

international: country code - 297; landing site for the PAN-AM
submarine telecommunications cable system that extends from the US
Virgin Islands through Aruba to Venezuela, Colombia, Panama, and the
west coast of South America; extensive interisland microwave radio
relay links (2007)



Broadcast media:


2 commercial television stations; cable TV subscription service
provides access to foreign channels; about 20 commercial radio
stations broadcast (2007)



Internet country code:


.aw



Internet hosts:


25,080 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 101


Internet users:


24,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 187






Transportation ::Aruba




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 210


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Barcadera, Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas







Military ::Aruba




Military branches:


no regular military forces (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 24,779

females age 16-49: 26,090 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 20,398

females age 16-49: 21,371 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 738

female: 715 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands







Transnational Issues ::Aruba




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


transit point for US- and Europe-bound narcotics with some
accompanying money-laundering activity; relatively high percentage
of population consumes cocaine









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Ashmore and Cartier Islands  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Background:


These uninhabited islands came under Australian authority in 1931;
formal administration began two years later. Ashmore Reef supports a
rich and diverse avian and marine habitat; in 1983, it became a
National Nature Reserve. Cartier Island, a former bombing range,
became a marine reserve in 2000.







Geography ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Location:


Southeastern Asia, islands in the Indian Ocean, midway between
northwestern Australia and Timor island



Geographic coordinates:


12 14 S, 123 05 E



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 5 sq km
country comparison to the world: 246
land: 5 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and
Cartier Island



Area - comparative:


about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


74.1 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


tropical



Terrain:


low with sand and coral



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: unnamed location 3 m



Natural resources:


fish



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (all grass and sand) (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


surrounded by shoals and reefs that can pose maritime hazards



Environment - current issues:


illegal killing of protected wildlife by traditional Indonesian
fisherman, as well as fishing by non-traditional Indonesian vessels,
are ongoing problems



Geography - note:


Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve established in August 1983;
Cartier Island Marine Reserve established in 2000







People ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Population:


no indigenous inhabitants

note: Indonesian fishermen are allowed access to the lagoon and
fresh water at Ashmore Reef's West Island; access to East and Middle
Islands is by permit only







Government ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands

conventional short form: Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Dependency status:


territory of Australia; administered by the Australian Government
Attorney-General's Department



Legal system:


the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia and the laws of the
Northern Territory of Australia where applicable apply



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Flag description:


the flag of Australia is used







Economy ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Economy - overview:


no economic activity








Transportation ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Ports and terminals:


none; offshore anchorage only







Military ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of Australia; periodic visits by the
Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force







Transnational Issues ::Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Disputes - international:


as the closest Australian territory to Indonesia, these islands
became the target of human traffickers for the landing of illegal
immigrants; in 2001, the Australian government removed these islands
from the Australian Migration Zone making illegal arrivals
ineligible for temporary visas and entry into Australia









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Atlantic Ocean  (Oceans)

Introduction ::Atlantic Ocean




Background:


The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's five oceans
(after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than the Indian Ocean, Southern
Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). The Kiel Canal (Germany), Oresund
(Denmark-Sweden), Bosporus (Turkey), Strait of Gibraltar
(Morocco-Spain), and the Saint Lawrence Seaway (Canada-US) are
important strategic access waterways. The decision by the
International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to
delimit a fifth world ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion
of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude.







Geography ::Atlantic Ocean




Location:


body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern Ocean, and the
Western Hemisphere



Geographic coordinates:


0 00 N, 25 00 W



Map references:


Political Map of the World



Area:


total: 76.762 million sq km

note: includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico, Labrador
Sea, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the
Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies



Area - comparative:


slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US



Coastline:


111,866 km



Climate:


tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast of Africa near
Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea; hurricanes can
occur from May to December but are most frequent from August to
November



Terrain:


surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador Sea, Denmark
Strait, and coastal portions of the Baltic Sea from October to June;
clockwise warm-water gyre (broad, circular system of currents) in
the northern Atlantic, counterclockwise warm-water gyre in the
southern Atlantic; the ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic
Ridge, a rugged north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico Trench -8,605 m

highest point: sea level 0 m



Natural resources:


oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales), sand
and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules,
precious stones



Natural hazards:


icebergs common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, and the
northwestern Atlantic Ocean from February to August and have been
spotted as far south as Bermuda and the Madeira Islands; ships
subject to superstructure icing in extreme northern Atlantic from
October to May; persistent fog can be a maritime hazard from May to
September; hurricanes (May to December)



Environment - current issues:


endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions,
turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is hastening the decline of
fish stocks and contributing to international disputes; municipal
sludge pollution off eastern US, southern Brazil, and eastern
Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake
Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; industrial waste and
municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea, North Sea, and
Mediterranean Sea



Geography - note:


major chokepoints include the Dardanelles, Strait of Gibraltar,
access to the Panama and Suez Canals; strategic straits include the
Strait of Dover, Straits of Florida, Mona Passage, The Sound
(Oresund), and Windward Passage; the Equator divides the Atlantic
Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean









Economy ::Atlantic Ocean




Economy - overview:


The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world's most heavily
trafficked sea routes, between and within the Eastern and Western
Hemispheres. Other economic activity includes the exploitation of
natural resources, e.g., fishing, dredging of aragonite sands (The
Bahamas), and production of crude oil and natural gas (Caribbean
Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and North Sea).








Transportation ::Atlantic Ocean




Ports and terminals:


Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona
(Spain), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca (Morocco), Colon
(Panama), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal), Gdansk (Poland),
Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands,
Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille
(France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal (Canada), Naples (Italy),
New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran (Algeria), Oslo (Norway),
Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam
(Netherlands), Saint Petersburg (Russia), Stockholm (Sweden)



Transportation - note:


Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two important waterways;
significant domestic commercial and recreational use of Intracoastal
Waterway on central and south Atlantic seaboard and Gulf of Mexico
coast of US; the International Maritime Bureau reports the
territorial waters of littoral states and offshore Atlantic waters
as high risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships,
particularly in the Gulf of Guinea off West Africa, the east coast
of Brazil, and the Caribbean Sea; numerous commercial vessels have
been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargoes stolen; crews have
been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen








Transnational Issues ::Atlantic Ocean




Disputes - international:


some maritime disputes (see littoral states)









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Australia  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Australia




Background:


Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia
about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in
the 17th century. No formal territorial claims were made until 1770,
when Capt. James COOK took possession in the name of Great Britain.
Six colonies were created in the late 18th and 19th centuries; they
federated and became the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901. The new
country took advantage of its natural resources to rapidly develop
agricultural and manufacturing industries and to make a major
contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and II. In recent
decades, Australia has transformed itself into an internationally
competitive, advanced market economy. It boasted one of the OECD's
fastest growing economies during the 1990s, a performance due in
large part to economic reforms adopted in the 1980s. Long-term
concerns include climate-change issues such as the depletion of the
ozone layer and more frequent droughts, and management and
conservation of coastal areas, especially the Great Barrier Reef.







Geography ::Australia




Location:


Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific
Ocean



Geographic coordinates:


27 00 S, 133 00 E



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 7,741,220 sq km
country comparison to the world: 6
land: 7,682,300 sq km

water: 58,920 sq km

note: includes Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than the US contiguous 48 states



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


25,760 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east; tropical in
north



Terrain:


mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lake Eyre -15 m

highest point: Mount Kosciuszko 2,229 m



Natural resources:


bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, gold, silver, uranium, nickel,
tungsten, rare earth elements, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds,
natural gas, petroleum

note: Australia is the world's largest net exporter of coal
accounting for 29% of global coal exports



Land use:


arable land: 6.15% (includes about 27 million hectares of cultivated
grassland)

permanent crops: 0.04%

other: 93.81% (2005)



Irrigated land:


25,450 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


398 cu km (1995)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 24.06 cu km/yr (15%/10%/75%)

per capita: 1,193 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


cyclones along the coast; severe droughts; forest fires

volcanism: volcanic activity occurs on the Heard and McDonald Islands



Environment - current issues:


soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development, urbanization,
and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due to the use of
poor quality water; desertification; clearing for agricultural
purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique animal and
plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast coast, the
largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by increased shipping
and its popularity as a tourist site; limited natural fresh water
resources



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


world's smallest continent but sixth-largest country; population
concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts; the
invigorating sea breeze known as the "Fremantle Doctor" affects the
city of Perth on the west coast and is one of the most consistent
winds in the world







People ::Australia




Population:


21,515,754 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Age structure:


0-14 years: 18.6% (male 2,026,975/female 1,923,828)

15-64 years: 67.9% (male 7,318,743/female 7,121,613)

65 years and over: 13.5% (male 1,306,329/female 1,565,153) (2010
est.)



Median age:


total: 37.5 years

male: 36.8 years

female: 38.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.171% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107


Birth rate:


12.39 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 161


Death rate:


6.81 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 145


Net migration rate:


6.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


Urbanization:


urban population: 89% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.055 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female

total population: 1 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 4.67 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 192
male: 5 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 81.72 years
country comparison to the world: 9
male: 79.33 years

female: 84.25 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.78 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


18,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127


Nationality:


noun: Australian(s)

adjective: Australian



Ethnic groups:


white 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1%



Religions:


Catholic 25.8%, Anglican 18.7%, Uniting Church 5.7%, Presbyterian
and Reformed 3%, Eastern Orthodox 2.7%, other Christian 7.9%,
Buddhist 2.1%, Muslim 1.7%, other 2.4%, unspecified 11.3%, none
18.7% (2006 Census)



Languages:


English 78.5%, Chinese 2.5%, Italian 1.6%, Greek 1.3%, Arabic 1.2%,
Vietnamese 1%, other 8.2%, unspecified 5.7% (2006 Census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99%

male: 99%

female: 99% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 21 years

male: 20 years

female: 21 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


4.7% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 83






Government ::Australia




Country name:


conventional long form: Commonwealth of Australia

conventional short form: Australia



Government type:


federal parliamentary democracy and a Commonwealth realm



Capital:


name: Canberra

geographic coordinates: 35 17 S, 149 13 E

time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends
first Sunday in April

note: Australia is divided into three time zones



Administrative divisions:


6 states and 2 territories*; Australian Capital Territory*, New
South Wales, Northern Territory*, Queensland, South Australia,
Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia



Dependent areas:


Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands,
Macquarie Island, Norfolk Island



Independence:


1 January 1901 (from the federation of UK colonies)



National holiday:


Australia Day, 26 January (1788); ANZAC Day (commemorated as the
anniversary of the landing of troops of the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps during World War I at Gallipoli, Turkey), 25
April (1915)



Constitution:


9 July 1900; effective on 1 January 1901



Legal system:


based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
with reservations; accepts International Criminal Court jurisdiction
with conditions



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen of Australia ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
1952); represented by Governor General Quentin BRYCE (since 5
September 2008)

head of government: Prime Minister Julia Eileen GILLARD (since 24
June 2010); Deputy Prime Minister Wayne Maxwell SWAN (since 24 June
2010)

cabinet: prime minister nominates, from among members of Parliament,
candidates who are subsequently sworn in by the governor general to
serve as government ministers
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of
a majority coalition is sworn in as prime minister by the governor
general



Legislative branch:


bicameral Federal Parliament consists of the Senate (76 seats; 12
members from each of the six states and 2 from each of the two
mainland territories; one-half of state members are elected every
three years by popular vote to serve six-year terms while all
territory members are elected every three years) and the House of
Representatives (150 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
terms of up to three-years; no state can have fewer than 5
representatives)

elections: half-Senate - last held on 21 August 2010; House of
Representatives - last held on 21 August 2010 (the latest a
simultaneous half-Senate and House of Representative elections can
be held is 2014)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Liberal/National Party 34, Australian Labor Party 31, Greens
9, others 2; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party -
Australian Labor Party 38.1%, Liberal Party 30.4%, Greens 11.5%,
Liberal National Party of Queensland 9.3%, independents 6.6%, The
Nationals 3.7%, Country Liberals 0.3%; seats by party - Australian
Labor Party 72, Liberal Party 44, Liberal National Party of
Queensland 21, The Nationals 7, Country Liberals 1, Greens 1,
independents 4



Judicial branch:


High Court (the chief justice and six other justices are appointed
by the governor general acting on the advice of the government)



Political parties and leaders:


Australian Greens [Bob BROWN]; Australian Labor Party [Julia
GILLARD]; Family First Party [Steve FIELDING]; Liberal Party [Tony
ABBOTT]; The Nationals [Warren TRUSS]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: business groups; environmental groups; social groups; trade
unions



International organization participation:


ADB, ANZUS, APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group,
BIS, C, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, FATF, G-20, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW, OSCE
(partner), Paris Club, PCA, PIF, SAARC (observer), Sparteca, SPC,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Kim Christian BEAZLEY

chancery: 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone: [1] (202) 797-3000

FAX: [1] (202) 797-3168

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New
York, San Francisco



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Jeffrey L. BLEICH

embassy: Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian Capital
Territory 2600

mailing address: APO AP 96549

telephone: [61] (02) 6214-5600

FAX: [61] (02) 6214-5970

consulate(s) general: Melbourne, Perth, Sydney



Flag description:


blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a
large seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side quadrant known as
the Commonwealth or Federation Star, representing the federation of
the colonies of Australia in 1901; the star depicts one point for
each of the six original states and one representing all of
Australia's internal and external territories; on the fly half is a
representation of the Southern Cross constellation in white with one
small five-pointed star and four larger, seven-pointed stars



National anthem:


name: "Advance Australia Fair"

lyrics/music: Peter Dodds McCORMICK

note: adopted 1984; although originally written in the late 19th
century, the anthem did not become official until 1984; as a
Commonwealth country, in addition to the national anthem, "God Save
the Queen" serves as the royal anthem (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Australia




Economy - overview:


Australia's abundant and diverse natural resources attract high
levels of foreign investment and include extensive reserves of coal,
iron ore, copper, gold, natural gas, uranium, and renewable energy
sources. A series of major investments, such as the US$40 billion
Gorgon Liquid Natural Gas project, will significantly expand the
resources sector. Australia also has a large services sector and is
a significant exporter of natural resources, energy, and food. Key
tenets of Australia's trade policy include support for open trade
and the successful culmination of the Doha Round of multilateral
trade negotiations, particularly for agriculture and services. The
Australian economy grew for 17 consecutive years before the global
financial crisis. Subsequently, the Rudd government introduced a
fiscal stimulus package worth over US$50 billion to offset the
effect of the slowing world economy, while the Reserve Bank of
Australia cut interest rates to historic lows. These policies - and
continued demand for commodities, especially from China - helped the
Australian economy rebound after just one quarter of negative
growth. The economy grew by 1.2% during 2009 - the best performance
in the OECD. Unemployment, originally expected to reach 8-10%,
peaked at 5.7% in late 2009 and fell to 5.1% in 2010. As a result of
an improved economy, the budget deficit is expected to peak below
4.2% of GDP and the government could return to budget surpluses as
early as 2015. Australia was one of the first advanced economies to
raise interest rates, with seven rate hikes between October 2009 and
November 2010. The GILLARD government is focused on raising
Australia's economic productivity to ensure the sustainability of
growth, and continues to manage the symbiotic, but sometimes tense,
economic relationship with China. Australia is engaged in the
Trans-Pacific Partnership talks and ongoing free trade agreement
negotiations with China, Japan, and Korea.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$889.6 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18
$861.1 billion (2009 est.)

$850.9 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.22 trillion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106
1.2% (2009 est.)

2.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$41,300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17
$40,500 (2009 est.)

$40,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 4%

industry: 24.8%

services: 71.2% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


11.62 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 44


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 3.6%

industry: 21.1%

services: 75% (2009 est.)



Unemployment rate:


5.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
5.6% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2%

highest 10%: 25.4% (1994)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


30.5 (2006)
country comparison to the world: 110
35.2 (1994)



Investment (gross fixed):


27.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Public debt:


22.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
22.1% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88
1.8% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4% (31 March 2010)
country comparison to the world: 106
4.25% (3 December 2008)

note: this is the Reserve Bank of Australia's "cash rate target," or
policy rate



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


6.02% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105
8.91% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$347.1 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 13
$290.8 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.134 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15
$976.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.731 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13
$1.407 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$1.258 trillion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 13
$675.6 billion (31 December 2008)

$1.298 trillion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits; cattle, sheep, poultry



Industries:


mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food processing,
chemicals, steel



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Electricity - production:


239.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


Electricity - consumption:


222 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


589,200 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Oil - consumption:


946,300 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Oil - exports:


311,900 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Oil - imports:


716,700 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Oil - proved reserves:


3.318 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Natural gas - production:


42.33 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Natural gas - consumption:


26.59 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Natural gas - exports:


22.3 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Natural gas - imports:


6.56 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Natural gas - proved reserves:


3.115 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


Current account balance:


-$35.23 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182
-$41.33 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$210.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21
$154.8 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


coal, iron ore, gold, meat, wool, alumina, wheat, machinery and
transport equipment



Exports - partners:


China 21.81%, Japan 19.19%, South Korea 7.88%, India 7.51%, US
4.95%, UK 4.37%, NZ 4.1% (2009)



Imports:


$200.4 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21
$160.4 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, computers and office machines,
telecommunication equipment and parts; crude oil and petroleum
products



Imports - partners:


China 17.94%, US 11.26%, Japan 8.36%, Thailand 5.81%, Singapore
5.54%, Germany 5.3% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$38.62 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30
$41.74 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.169 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14
$1.094 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$329.1 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14
$295.9 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$245.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17
$221.1 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.1151 (2010), 1.2822
(2009), 1.2059 (2008), 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285 (2006)







Communications ::Australia




Telephones - main lines in use:


9.02 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 24


Telephones - mobile cellular:


24.22 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 37


Telephone system:


general assessment: excellent domestic and international service

domestic: domestic satellite system; significant use of
radiotelephone in areas of low population density; rapid growth of
mobile telephones

international: country code - 61; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
Middle East, and Europe; the Southern Cross fiber optic submarine
cable provides links to New Zealand and the United States; satellite
earth stations - 19 (10 Intelsat - 4 Indian Ocean and 6 Pacific
Ocean, 2 Inmarsat - Indian and Pacific Ocean regions, 2 Globalstar,
5 other) (2007)



Broadcast media:


the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) runs multiple national
and local radio networks and TV stations, as well as Australia
Network, a TV service that broadcasts throughout the Asia-Pacific
region and is the main public broadcaster; Special Broadcasting
Service (SBS), a second large public broadcaster, operates radio and
TV networks broadcasting in multiple languages; several large
national commercial TV networks, a large number of local commercial
TV stations, and hundreds of commercial radio stations are
accessible; cable and satellite systems are available (2008)



Internet country code:


.au



Internet hosts:


13.361 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 8


Internet users:


15.81 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 25






Transportation ::Australia




Airports:


465 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 17


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 326

over 3,047 m: 11

2,438 to 3,047 m: 13

1,524 to 2,437 m: 148

914 to 1,523 m: 140

under 914 m: 14 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 139

1,524 to 2,437 m: 17

914 to 1,523 m: 110

under 914 m: 12 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 27,105 km; liquid petroleum gas 240 km; oil 3,258 km;
oil/gas/water 1 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 37,855 km
country comparison to the world: 7
broad gauge: 142 km 1.600-m gauge

standard gauge: 24,409 km 1.435-m gauge (1,094 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 13,304 km 1.067-m gauge (1,193 km electrified) (2008)



Roadways:


total: 812,972 km
country comparison to the world: 9
paved: 341,448 km

unpaved: 471,524 km (2004)



Waterways:


2,000 km (mainly used for recreation on Murray and Murray-Darling
river systems) (2006)
country comparison to the world: 45


Merchant marine:


total: 45
country comparison to the world: 73
by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 8, liquefied gas 4, passenger 6,
passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker 6, roll on/roll off 5

foreign-owned: 20 (Canada 7, Germany 2, Netherlands 1, Norway 1,
Singapore 2, UK 5, US 2)

registered in other countries: 29 (Dominica 1, Fiji 2, Liberia 2,
Marshall Islands 1, Netherlands 1, NZ 1, Panama 5, Singapore 11,
Tonga 1, UK 1, US 1, Vanuatu 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Brisbane, Cairns, Dampier, Darwin, Fremantle, Gladstone, Geelong,
Hay Point, Hobart, Jervis Bay, Melbourne, Newcastle, Port Adelaide,
Port Dalrymple, Port Hedland, Port Kembla, Port Lincoln, Port
Walcott, Sydney







Military ::Australia




Military branches:


Australian Defense Force (ADF): Australian Army, Royal Australian
Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, Special Operations Command (2006)



Military service age and obligation:


17 years of age for voluntary military service (with parental
consent); no conscription; women allowed to serve in Army combat
units in non-combat support roles (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 5,275,667

females age 16-49: 5,082,543 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 4,377,411

females age 16-49: 4,210,442 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 144,232

female: 136,525 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 42






Transnational Issues ::Australia




Disputes - international:


In 2007 Australia and Timor-Leste signed a 50-year development zone
and revenue sharing agreement in lieu of a maritime boundary;
dispute with Timor-Leste hampers creation of a revised maritime
boundary with Indonesia in the Timor Sea; regional states continue
to express concern over Australia's 2004 declaration of a
1,000-nautical mile-wide maritime identification zone; Australia
asserts land and maritime claims to Antarctica; in 2004 Australia
submitted its claims to Commission on the Limits of the Continental
Shelf (CLCS) to extend its continental margins covering over 3.37
million square kilometers, expanding its seabed roughly 30 percent
more than its claimed exclusive economic zone; since 2003, Australia
has led the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands
(RAMSI) to maintain civil and political order and reinforce regional
security



Illicit drugs:


Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of licit opiate
products; government maintains strict controls over areas of opium
poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw concentrate; major
consumer of cocaine and amphetamines









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Austria  (Europe)

Introduction ::Austria




Background:


Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian Empire,
Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in World
War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and subsequent
occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945, Austria's status
remained unclear for a decade. A State Treaty signed in 1955 ended
the occupation, recognized Austria's independence, and forbade
unification with Germany. A constitutional law that same year
declared the country's "perpetual neutrality" as a condition for
Soviet military withdrawal. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 and
Austria's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the
meaning of this neutrality. A prosperous, democratic country,
Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999.







Geography ::Austria




Location:


Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia



Geographic coordinates:


47 20 N, 13 20 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 83,871 sq km
country comparison to the world: 113
land: 82,445 sq km

water: 1,426 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maine



Land boundaries:


total: 2,562 km

border countries: Czech Republic 362 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary 366
km, Italy 430 km, Liechtenstein 35 km, Slovakia 91 km, Slovenia 330
km, Switzerland 164 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent rain and
some snow in lowlands and snow in mountains; moderate summers with
occasional showers



Terrain:


in the west and south mostly mountains (Alps); along the eastern and
northern margins mostly flat or gently sloping



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Neusiedler See 115 m

highest point: Grossglockner 3,798 m



Natural resources:


oil, coal, lignite, timber, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony,
magnesite, tungsten, graphite, salt, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 16.59%

permanent crops: 0.85%

other: 82.56% (2005)



Irrigated land:


40 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


84 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 3.67 cu km/yr (35%/64%/1%)

per capita: 448 cu m/yr (1999)



Natural hazards:


landslides; avalanches; earthquakes



Environment - current issues:


some forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution; soil
pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air
pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power
stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria
between northern and southern Europe



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads of central Europe
with many easily traversable Alpine passes and valleys; major river
is the Danube; population is concentrated on eastern lowlands
because of steep slopes, poor soils, and low temperatures elsewhere







People ::Austria




Population:


8,214,160 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Age structure:


0-14 years: 14.5% (male 609,748/female 581,144)

15-64 years: 67.5% (male 2,785,091/female 2,756,402)

65 years and over: 18% (male 612,613/female 865,283) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 42.6 years

male: 41.5 years

female: 43.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.042% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Birth rate:


8.65 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 216


Death rate:


10.05 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Net migration rate:


1.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Urbanization:


urban population: 67% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.051 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female

total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 4.37 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 197
male: 5.31 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 3.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 79.65 years
country comparison to the world: 31
male: 76.74 years

female: 82.71 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.39 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


9,800 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128


Nationality:


noun: Austrian(s)

adjective: Austrian



Ethnic groups:


Austrians 91.1%, former Yugoslavs 4% (includes Croatians, Slovenes,
Serbs, and Bosniaks), Turks 1.6%, German 0.9%, other or unspecified
2.4% (2001 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 73.6%, Protestant 4.7%, Muslim 4.2%, other 3.5%,
unspecified 2%, none 12% (2001 census)



Languages:


German (official nationwide) 88.6%, Turkish 2.3%, Serbian 2.2%,
Croatian (official in Burgenland) 1.6%, other (includes Slovene,
official in Carinthia, and Hungarian, official in Burgenland) 5.3%
(2001 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 98%

male: NA

female: NA



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 15 years

male: 15 years

female: 15 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


5.4% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 47






Government ::Austria




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Austria

conventional short form: Austria

local long form: Republik Oesterreich

local short form: Oesterreich



Government type:


federal republic



Capital:


name: Vienna

geographic coordinates: 48 12 N, 16 22 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


9 states (Bundeslaender, singular - Bundesland); Burgenland,
Kaernten (Carinthia), Niederoesterreich (Lower Austria),
Oberoesterreich (Upper Austria), Salzburg, Steiermark (Styria),
Tirol (Tyrol), Vorarlberg, Wien (Vienna)



Independence:


12 November 1918 (republic proclaimed); notable earlier dates: 976
(Margravate of Austria established); 17 September 1156 (Duchy of
Austria founded); 11 August 1804 (Austrian Empire proclaimed)



National holiday:


National Day, 26 October (1955); note - commemorates the passage of
the law on permanent neutrality



Constitution:


1920; revised 1929; reinstated 1 May 1945; note - during the period
1 May 1934-1 May 1945 there was a fascist (corporative) constitution
in place



Legal system:


civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial review of
legislative acts by the Constitutional Court; separate
administrative and civil/penal supreme courts; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


16 years of age; universal; note - reduced from 18 years of age in
2007



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Heinz FISCHER (SPOe) (since 8 July 2004)

head of government: Chancellor Werner FAYMANN (SPOe) (since 2
December 2008); Vice Chancellor Josef PROELL (OeVP) (since 2
December 2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers chosen by the president on the advice
of the chancellor
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected for a six-year term (eligible for a
second term) by direct popular vote and formally sworn into office
before the Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung; presidential
election last held on 25 April 2010 (next to be held on 25 April
2016); chancellor formally chosen by the president but determined by
the coalition parties forming a parliamentary majority; vice
chancellor chosen by the president on the advice of the chancellor

election results: Heinz FISCHER reelected president with 79.3% of
the vote

note: government coalition - SPOe and OeVP



Legislative branch:


bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung consists of Federal
Council or Bundesrat (62 seats; delegates appointed by state
parliaments with each state receiving 3 to 12 seats in proportion to
its population; members serve five- or six-year terms) and the
National Council or Nationalrat (183 seats; members elected by
popular vote for a five-year term under a system of proportional
representation with partially-open party lists)

elections: National Council - last held on 28 September 2008 (next
to be held by September 2013)

election results: National Council - percent of vote by party - SPOe
29.3%, OeVP 26%, FPOe 17.5%, BZOe 10.7%, Greens 10.4%, other 6.1%;
seats by party - SPOe 57, OeVP 51, FPOe 34, BZOe 21, Greens 20



Judicial branch:


Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Administrative Court
or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court or
Verfassungsgerichtshof



Political parties and leaders:


Alliance for the Future of Austria or BZOe [Josef BUCHER]; Austrian
People's Party or OeVP [Josef PROELL]; Freedom Party of Austria or
FPOe [Heinz Christian STRACHE]; Social Democratic Party of Austria
or SPOe [Werner FAYMANN]; The Greens [Eva GLAWISCHNIG]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Austrian Trade Union Federation or OeGB (nominally independent but
primarily Social Democratic); Federal Economic Chamber;
OeVP-oriented Association of Austrian Industrialists or IV; Roman
Catholic Church, including its chief lay organization, Catholic
Action

other: three composite leagues of the Austrian People's Party or
OeVP representing business, labor, farmers, and other nongovernment
organizations in the areas of environment and human rights



International organization participation:


ADB (nonregional member), AfDB (nonregional member), Australia
Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU,
ESA, EU, FAO, FATF, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, Schengen
Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP,
UNHCR, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Christian PROSL

chancery: 3524 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008-3035

telephone: [1] (202) 895-6700

FAX: [1] (202) 895-6750

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador William C. EACHO III

embassy: Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1090, Vienna

mailing address: use embassy street address

telephone: [43] (1) 31339-0

FAX: [43] (1) 3100682



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red; the flag
design is certainly one of the oldest - if not the oldest - national
banners in the world; according to tradition, in 1191, following a
fierce battle in the Third Crusade, Duke Leopold V of Austria's
white tunic became completely blood-spattered; upon removal of his
wide belt or sash, a white band was revealed; the red-white-red
color combination was subsequently adopted as his banner



National anthem:


name: "Bundeshymne" (Federal Hymn)

lyrics/music: Paula von PRERADOVIC/Wolfgang Amadeus MOZART or Johann
HOLZER (disputed)

note: adopted 1947; the anthem is also known as "Land der Berge,
Land am Strome" (Land of the Mountains, Land on the River); Austria
adopted a new national anthem after World War II to replace the
former imperial anthem composed by Franz Josef HAYDN, which had been
appropriated by Germany in 1922 and was now associated with the Nazi
regime







Economy ::Austria




Economy - overview:


Austria, with its well-developed market economy and high standard of
living, is closely tied to other EU economies, especially Germany's.
Its economy features a large service sector, a sound industrial
sector, and a small, but highly developed agricultural sector.
Following several years of solid foreign demand for Austrian exports
and record employment growth, the international financial crisis and
global economic downturn in 2008 led to a recession that persisted
until the third quarter of 2009. Austrian GDP contracted 3.8% in
2009 but saw positive growth of about 2% in 2010. Unemployment has
not risen as steeply in Austria as elsewhere in Europe, partly
because its government has subsidized reduced working hour schemes
to allow companies to retain employees. Such stabilization measures,
stimulus initiatives, and the government's income tax reforms pushed
the budget deficit to 3.5% of GDP in 2009 and about 5% in 2010, from
only about 1.3% in 2008. The international financial crisis caused
difficulties for some of Austria's largest banks whose extensive
operations in central, eastern, and southeastern Europe faced large
losses. The government provided bank support - including in some
instances, nationalization - to prevent insolvency and possible
regional contagion. In the medium-term all large Austrian banks will
need additional capital. Even after the global economic outlook
improves, Austria will need to continue restructuring, emphasizing
knowledge-based sectors of the economy, and encouraging greater
labor flexibility and greater labor participation to offset growing
unemployment and Austria's aging population and exceedingly low
fertility rate.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$332.9 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
$326.4 billion (2009 est.)

$339.3 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$366.3 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147
-3.8% (2009 est.)

1.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$40,300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20
$39,800 (2009 est.)

$41,300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1.5%

industry: 29.4%

services: 69.1% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


3.63 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 5.5%

industry: 27.5%

services: 67% (2005 est.)



Unemployment rate:


4.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43
4.8% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


6% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 4%

highest 10%: 22% (2007)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


26 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 127
31 (1995)



Investment (gross fixed):


21% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Public debt:


68.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25
66.4% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40
0.4% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


5.03% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132
6.82% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$173.4 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 18
$175.6 billion (31 December 2009 est)

note: see entry for the European Union for money supply for the
entire euro area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary
policy for the 16 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU);
individual members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money
circulating within their own borders



Stock of broad money:


$402.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23
$402.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$659.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20
$606.2 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$53.58 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 43
$72.3 billion (31 December 2008)

$228.7 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit; dairy products, cattle,
pigs, poultry; lumber



Industries:


construction, machinery, vehicles and parts, food, metals,
chemicals, lumber and wood processing, paper and paperboard,
communications equipment, tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Electricity - production:


66.78 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Electricity - consumption:


68.37 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Electricity - exports:


14.93 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


19.8 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


25,410 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Oil - consumption:


273,700 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Oil - exports:


52,970 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Oil - imports:


298,400 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Oil - proved reserves:


50 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Natural gas - production:


1.668 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 59


Natural gas - consumption:


8.232 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 50


Natural gas - exports:


3.961 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Natural gas - imports:


10.96 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 20


Natural gas - proved reserves:


16.14 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Current account balance:


$8.012 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26
$8.73 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$157.4 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29
$135.7 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, paper and
paperboard, metal goods, chemicals, iron and steel, textiles,
foodstuffs



Exports - partners:


Germany 30.96%, Italy 8.17%, Switzerland 4.99%, US 3.99% (2009)



Imports:


$156 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28
$138.7 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals, metal goods, oil
and oil products; foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


Germany 45.07%, Switzerland 6.76%, Italy 6.66%, Netherlands 4.03%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$18.05 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$755 billion (30 June 2010)
country comparison to the world: 17
$864.2 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$290.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18
$286.4 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$297.2 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14
$290.5 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7179 (2009), 0.6827
(2008), 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006)







Communications ::Austria




Telephones - main lines in use:


3.253 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 46


Telephones - mobile cellular:


11.773 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 59


Telephone system:


general assessment: highly developed and efficient

domestic: fixed-line subscribership has been in decline since the
mid-1990s with mobile-cellular subscribership eclipsing it by the
late 1990s; the fiber-optic net is very extensive; all telephone
applications and Internet services are available

international: country code - 43; satellite earth stations - 15; in
addition, there are about 600 VSATs (very small aperture terminals)
(2007)



Broadcast media:


Austria's public broadcaster, ORF, was the main broadcast source
until commercial radio and television service was introduced in the
1990s; cable and satellite TV are available, including German TV
stations (2008)



Internet country code:


.at



Internet hosts:


3.266 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 29


Internet users:


6.143 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 43






Transportation ::Austria




Airports:


55 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 84


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 25

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 5

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 4

under 914 m: 14 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 30

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 26 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,721 km; oil 663 km; refined products 157 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 6,399 km
country comparison to the world: 29
standard gauge: 5,927 km 1.435-m gauge (3,688 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 384 km 1.000-m gauge (15 km electrified); 88 km
0.760-m gauge (10 km electrified) (2008)



Roadways:


total: 107,262 km
country comparison to the world: 40
paved: 107,262 km (includes 1,696 km of expressways) (2006)



Waterways:


358 km (2007)
country comparison to the world: 91


Merchant marine:


total: 2
country comparison to the world: 141
by type: cargo 2

registered in other countries: 4 (Cyprus 1, Malta 1, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Enns, Krems, Linz, Vienna







Military ::Austria




Military branches:


Land Forces (KdoLdSK), Air Forces (KdoLuSK)



Military service age and obligation:


18-35 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of age
for male or female voluntary service; service obligation 6 months of
training, followed by an 8-year reserve obligation; conscripts
cannot be deployed in military operations outside Austria (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,960,781

females age 16-49: 1,926,134 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,595,379

females age 16-49: 1,566,884 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 49,455

female: 47,046 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.8% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 150






Transnational Issues ::Austria




Disputes - international:


while threats of international legal action never materialized in
2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the newly elected
Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that
Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague
closed its nuclear power plant in Temelin, bordering Austria



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and South American
cocaine destined for Western Europe; increasing consumption of
European-produced synthetic drugs









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Azerbaijan  (Middle East)

Introduction ::Azerbaijan




Background:


Azerbaijan - a nation with a majority-Turkic and majority-Muslim
population - was briefly independent from 1918 to 1920; it regained
its independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Despite a 1994 cease-fire, Azerbaijan has yet to resolve its
conflict with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily
Armenian-populated region that Moscow recognized as part of Soviet
Azerbaijan in the 1920s after Armenia and Azerbaijan disputed the
status of the territory. Armenia and Azerbaijan began fighting over
the area in 1988; the struggle escalated after both countries
attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. By May 1994,
when a cease-fire took hold, ethnic Armenian forces held not only
Nagorno-Karabakh but also seven surrounding provinces in the
territory of Azerbaijan. Corruption in the country is ubiquitous,
and the government, which eliminated presidential term limits in a
2009 referendum, has been accused of authoritarianism. Although the
poverty rate has been reduced in recent years due to revenue from
oil production, the promise of widespread wealth resulting from the
continued development of Azerbaijan's energy sector remains largely
unfulfilled.







Geography ::Azerbaijan




Location:


Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and
Russia, with a small European portion north of the Caucasus range



Geographic coordinates:


40 30 N, 47 30 E



Map references:


Middle East



Area:


total: 86,600 sq km
country comparison to the world: 112
land: 82,629 sq km

water: 3,971 sq km

note: includes the exclave of Naxcivan Autonomous Republic and the
Nagorno-Karabakh region; the region's autonomy was abolished by
Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maine



Land boundaries:


total: 2,013 km

border countries: Armenia (with Azerbaijan-proper) 566 km, Armenia
(with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave) 221 km, Georgia 322 km, Iran
(with Azerbaijan-proper) 432 km, Iran (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey 9 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked); note - Azerbaijan borders the Caspian Sea (713 km)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


dry, semiarid steppe



Terrain:


large, flat Kur-Araz Ovaligi (Kura-Araks Lowland) (much of it below
sea level) with Great Caucasus Mountains to the north, Qarabag
Yaylasi (Karabakh Upland) in west; Baku lies on Abseron Yasaqligi
(Apsheron Peninsula) that juts into Caspian Sea



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m

highest point: Bazarduzu Dagi 4,485 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals, bauxite



Land use:


arable land: 20.62%

permanent crops: 2.61%

other: 76.77% (2005)



Irrigated land:


14,550 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


30.3 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 17.25 cu km/yr (5%/28%/68%)

per capita: 2,051 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


droughts



Environment - current issues:


local scientists consider the Abseron Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula)
(including Baku and Sumqayit) and the Caspian Sea to be the
ecologically most devastated area in the world because of severe
air, soil, and water pollution; soil pollution results from oil
spills, from the use of DDT pesticide, and from toxic defoliants
used in the production of cotton



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


both the main area of the country and the Naxcivan exclave are
landlocked







People ::Azerbaijan




Population:


8,303,512 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Age structure:


0-14 years: 23.9% (male 1,042,132/female 926,495)

15-64 years: 69.4% (male 2,807,717/female 2,908,221)

65 years and over: 6.7% (male 204,410/female 349,697) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 28.5 years

male: 26.9 years

female: 30.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.805% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137


Birth rate:


17.75 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Death rate:


8.28 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Net migration rate:


-1.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


Urbanization:


urban population: 52% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.124 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.58 male(s)/female

total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 52.84 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 46
male: 58.37 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 46.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 67.01 years
country comparison to the world: 156
male: 62.86 years

female: 71.67 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.03 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


7,800 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153


Nationality:


noun: Azerbaijani(s)

adjective: Azerbaijani



Ethnic groups:


Azeri 90.6%, Dagestani 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Armenian 1.5%, other 3.9%
(1999 census)

note: almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh
region



Religions:


Muslim 93.4%, Russian Orthodox 2.5%, Armenian Orthodox 2.3%, other
1.8% (1995 est.)

note: religious affiliation is still nominal in Azerbaijan;
percentages for actual practicing adherents are much lower



Languages:


Azerbaijani (Azeri) (official) 90.3%, Lezgi 2.2%, Russian 1.8%,
Armenian 1.5%, other 3.3%, unspecified 1% (1999 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 98.8%

male: 99.5%

female: 98.2% (1999 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 13 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


1.9% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 171






Government ::Azerbaijan




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Azerbaijan

conventional short form: Azerbaijan

local long form: Azarbaycan Respublikasi

local short form: Azarbaycan

former: Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Baku (Baki, Baky)

geographic coordinates: 40 23 N, 49 52 E

time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


59 rayons (rayonlar; rayon - singular), 11 cities (saharlar; sahar -
singular), 1 autonomous republic (muxtar respublika)

rayons: Abseron Rayonu, Agcabadi Rayonu, Agdam Rayonu, Agdas Rayonu,
Agstafa Rayonu, Agsu Rayonu, Astara Rayonu, Balakan Rayonu, Barda
Rayonu, Beylaqan Rayonu, Bilasuvar Rayonu, Cabrayil Rayonu,
Calilabad Rayonu, Daskasan Rayonu, Davaci Rayonu, Fuzuli Rayonu,
Gadabay Rayonu, Goranboy Rayonu, Goycay Rayonu, Haciqabul Rayonu,
Imisli Rayonu, Ismayilli Rayonu, Kalbacar Rayonu, Kurdamir Rayonu,
Lacin Rayonu, Lankaran Rayonu, Lerik Rayonu, Masalli Rayonu,
Neftcala Rayonu, Oguz Rayonu, Qabala Rayonu, Qax Rayonu, Qazax
Rayonu, Qobustan Rayonu, Quba Rayonu, Qubadli Rayonu, Qusar Rayonu,
Saatli Rayonu, Sabirabad Rayonu, Saki Rayonu, Salyan Rayonu, Samaxi
Rayonu, Samkir Rayonu, Samux Rayonu, Siyazan Rayonu, Susa Rayonu,
Tartar Rayonu, Tovuz Rayonu, Ucar Rayonu, Xacmaz Rayonu, Xanlar
Rayonu, Xizi Rayonu, Xocali Rayonu, Xocavand Rayonu, Yardimli
Rayonu, Yevlax Rayonu, Zangilan Rayonu, Zaqatala Rayonu, Zardab
Rayonu

cities: Ali Bayramli Sahari, Baki Sahari, Ganca Sahari, Lankaran
Sahari, Mingacevir Sahari, Naftalan Sahari, Saki Sahari, Sumqayit
Sahari, Susa Sahari, Xankandi Sahari, Yevlax Sahari

autonomous republic: Naxcivan Muxtar Respublikasi (Nakhichevan)



Independence:


30 August 1991 (declared from the Soviet Union); 18 October 1991
(adopted by the Supreme Council of Azerbaijan)



National holiday:


Founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan, 28 May (1918)



Constitution:


adopted 12 November 1995; modified by referendum 24 August 2002



Legal system:


based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Ilham ALIYEV (since 31 October 2003)

head of government: Prime Minister Artur RASIZADE (since 4 November
2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Yaqub EYYUBOV (since June 2006)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president and
confirmed by the National Assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for unlimited terms); election last held on 15 October
2008 (next to be held in October 2013); prime minister and first
deputy prime minister appointed by the president and confirmed by
the National Assembly

election results: Ilham ALIYEV reelected president; percent of vote
- Ilham ALIYEV 89%, Igbal AGHAZADE 2.9%, five other candidates with
smaller percentages

note: several political parties boycotted the election due to unfair
conditions; OSCE observers concluded that the election did not meet
international standards



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Milli Mejlis (125 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 7 November 2010 (next to be held in November
2015)

election results: percent of vote by party - YAP 45.8%, CSP 1.6%,
Motherland 1.4%, independents 48.2%, other 3.1%; seats by party -
YAP 71, CSP 3, Motherland 2, Democratic Reforms 1, Great Creation 1,
Hope Party 1, Social Welfare 1, Civil Unity 1, Whole Azerbaijan
Popular Front 1, Justice 1, independents 42



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court



Political parties and leaders:


Azerbaijan Democratic Party or ADP [Sardar JALALOGLU]; Civil
Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLI]; Civil Unity Party
[Sabir HACIYEV]; Classic People's Front of Azerbaijan [Mirmahmud
MIRALI-OGLU]; Democratic Reform Party [Asim MOLLAZADE]; Great
Creation Party [Fazil Gazanfaroglu MUSTAFAYEV]; Hope (Umid) Party
[Iqbal AGAZADE]; Justice Party [Ilyas ISMAYILOV]; Liberal Party of
Azerbaijan [Lala Shovkat HACIYEVA]; Motherland Party [Fazail
AGAMALI]; Musavat (Equality) [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; Open Society
Party [Rasul GULIYEV, in exile in the US]; Social Democratic Party
of Azerbaijan or SDP [Araz ALIZADE and Ayaz MUTALIBOV (in exile)];
Social Welfare Party [Hussein KAZIMLI]; United Popular Azerbaijan
Front Party or AXCP [Ali KARIMLI]; Whole Azerbaijan Popular Front
Party [Gudrat HASANGULIYEV]; Yeni (New) Azerbaijan Party or YAP
[President Ilham ALIYEV]

note: opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Azerbaijan Public Forum [Eldar NAMAZOV]; Karabakh Liberation
Organization



International organization participation:


ADB, BSEC, CE, CICA, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, GUAM, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (observer),
OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Yashar ALIYEV

chancery: 2741 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 337-3500

FAX: [1] (202) 337-5911

Consulate(s) general: Los Angeles



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Matthew BRYZA

embassy: 83 Azadlig Prospecti, Baku AZ1007

mailing address: American Embassy Baku, US Department of State, 7050
Baku Place, Washington, DC 20521-7050

telephone: [994] (12) 4980-335 through 337

FAX: [994] (12) 4656-671



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and green; a
crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered in the red
band; the blue band recalls Azerbaijan's Turkic heritage, red stands
for modernization and progress, and green refers to Islam; the
crescent moon is an Islamic symbol, while the eight-pointed star
represents the eight Turkic peoples of the world



National anthem:


name: "Azerbaijan Marsi" (March of Azerbaijan)

lyrics/music: Ahmed JAVAD/Uzeyir HAJIBEYOV

note: adopted 1992; although originally written in 1919 during a
brief period of independence, "Azerbaijan Marsi" did not become the
official anthem until after the dissolution of the Soviet Union







Economy ::Azerbaijan




Economy - overview:


Azerbaijan's high economic growth during 2006-08 was attributable to
large and growing oil exports, but some non-export sectors also
featured double-digit growth, spurred by growth in the construction,
banking, and real estate sectors. In 2009, economic growth remained
above 9% even as oil prices moderated and growth in the construction
sector cooled. In 2010, economic growth slowed to approximately
3.7%, although the impact of the global financial crisis was less
severe than in many other countries in the region. The current
global economic slowdown presents some challenges for the
Azerbaijani economy as oil prices remain below their mid-2008 highs,
highlighting Azerbaijan's reliance on energy exports and lackluster
attempts to diversify its economy. Azerbaijan's oil production
increased dramatically in 1997, when Azerbaijan signed the first
production-sharing arrangement (PSA) with the Azerbaijan
International Operating Company. Oil exports through the
Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline remain the main economic driver while
efforts to boost Azerbaijan's gas production are underway. However,
Azerbaijan has made only limited progress on instituting
market-based economic reforms. Pervasive public and private sector
corruption and structural economic inefficiencies remain a drag on
long-term growth, particularly in non-energy sectors. Several other
obstacles impede Azerbaijan's economic progress: the need for
stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector and the
continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region.
Trade with Russia and the other former Soviet republics is declining
in importance, while trade is building with Turkey and the nations
of Europe. Long-term prospects will depend on world oil prices, the
location of new oil and gas pipelines in the region, and
Azerbaijan's ability to manage its energy wealth to promote
sustainable growth in non-energy sectors of the economy and spur
employment.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$90.15 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73
$86.93 billion (2009 est.)

$79.54 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$52.17 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90
9.3% (2009 est.)

10.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$11,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 102
$10,600 (2009 est.)

$9,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 5.5%

industry: 61.4%

services: 33.1% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


5.874 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 38.3%

industry: 12.1%

services: 49.6% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


0.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3
6% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


11% (2009 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 6.1%

highest 10%: 17.5% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


36.5 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 81
36 (1995)



Investment (gross fixed):


17.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Public debt:


4.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128
6.7% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 146
1.5% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


2% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 53
8% (31 December 2008)

note: this is the Refinancing Rate, the key policy rate for the
National Bank of Azerbaijan



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


20.03% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20
19.76% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$7.34 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 77
$6.519 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$11.64 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96
$10.54 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$8.135 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100
$5.726 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea, tobacco;
cattle, pigs, sheep, goats



Industries:


petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield equipment;
steel, iron ore; cement; chemicals and petrochemicals; textiles



Industrial production growth rate:


3.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Electricity - production:


18.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Electricity - consumption:


18 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Electricity - exports:


786 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


548 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


1.011 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


Oil - consumption:


136,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Oil - exports:


528,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Oil - imports:


2,848 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Oil - proved reserves:


7 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Natural gas - production:


23 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Natural gas - consumption:


10.12 billion cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 47


Natural gas - exports:


5.564 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Natural gas - proved reserves:


849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Current account balance:


$15.96 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19
$10.18 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$28.07 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63
$21.1 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


oil and gas 90%, machinery, cotton, foodstuffs



Exports - partners:


Italy 20.69%, India 10.67%, US 9.24%, France 8.15%, Germany 7.62%,
Indonesia 6.63%, Canada 5.13% (2009)



Imports:


$7.035 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103
$6.514 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, oil products, foodstuffs, metals, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Turkey 18.69%, Russia 16.98%, Germany 7.87%, Ukraine 7.3%, China
6.18%, UK 5.73% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$6.33 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62
$5.364 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$3.221 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124
$3.44 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$8.918 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
$8.318 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$6.058 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58
$5.558 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Azerbaijani manats (AZN) per US dollar - 0.8035 (2010), 0.8038
(2009), 0.8219 (2008), 0.8581 (2007), 0.8934 (2006)







Communications ::Azerbaijan




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.397 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 68


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7.757 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 74


Telephone system:


general assessment: requires considerable expansion and
modernization; fixed-line telephony and a broad range of other
telecom services are controlled by a state-owned telecommunications
monopoly and growth has been stagnant; more competition exists in
the mobile-cellular market with four providers in 2009

domestic: teledensity of 17 fixed lines per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular teledensity has increased and is rapidly approaching
100 telephones per 100 persons; satellite service connects Baku to a
modern switch in its exclave of Nakhchivan

international: country code - 994; the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE)
fiber-optic link transits Azerbaijan providing international
connectivity to neighboring countries; the old Soviet system of
cable and microwave is still serviceable; satellite earth stations -
2 (2009)



Broadcast media:


1 state-run and 1 public television channel; 4 domestic commercial
TV stations and about 15 regional TV stations; Turkish, Russian, and
Iranian TV and radio broadcasts are available, especially in border
regions; cable TV services are available in Baku; 1 state-run and 1
public radio network operating; a small number of private commercial
radio stations broadcasting; local FM relays of Baku commercial
stations are available in many localities; local relays of several
international broadcasters had been available until late 2008 when
their broadcasts were banned from FM frequencies (2008)



Internet country code:


.az



Internet hosts:


22,737 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 105


Internet users:


2.42 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 70






Transportation ::Azerbaijan




Airports:


35 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 109


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 27

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 6

1,524 to 2,437 m: 13

914 to 1,523 m: 4

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 8

under 914 m: 8 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


condensate 1 km; gas 3,361 km; oil 1,424 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 2,918 km
country comparison to the world: 57
broad gauge: 2,918 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (2009)



Roadways:


total: 59,141 km
country comparison to the world: 76
paved: 29,210 km

unpaved: 29,931 km (2004)



Merchant marine:


total: 92
country comparison to the world: 54
by type: cargo 27, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 9, petroleum tanker
48, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 3

foreign-owned: 1 (Turkey 1)

registered in other countries: 2 (Malta 1, Panama 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Baku (Baki)







Military ::Azerbaijan




Military branches:


Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


men between 18 and 35 are liable for military service; 18 years of
age for voluntary military service; length of military service is 18
months and 12 months for university graduates (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,336,611

females age 16-49: 2,329,275 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,753,878

females age 16-49: 1,958,408 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 84,441

female: 78,905 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54






Transnational Issues ::Azerbaijan




Disputes - international:


Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh
and since the early 1990s has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan;
over 800,000 mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis were driven from the
occupied lands and Armenia; about 230,000 ethnic Armenians were
driven from their homes in Azerbaijan into Armenia and
Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route through Armenia to
connect to Naxcivan exclave; Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute;
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia have ratified Caspian seabed
delimitation treaties based on equidistance, while Iran continues to
insist on an even one-fifth allocation and challenges Azerbaijan's
hydrocarbon exploration in disputed waters; bilateral talks continue
with Turkmenistan on dividing the seabed and contested oilfields in
the middle of the Caspian; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to
discuss the alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 2,400 (Russia)

IDPs: 580,000-690,000 (conflict with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh)
(2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Azerbaijan is primarily a source and transit
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women and some
children from Azerbaijan are trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for
the purpose of sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked to
Russia for the purpose of forced labor; Azerbaijan serves as a
transit country for victims from Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan,
and Moldova trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for sexual exploitation

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Azerbaijan is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat trafficking in persons, particularly efforts to investigate,
prosecute, and punish traffickers; to address complicity among law
enforcement personnel; and to adequately identify and protect
victims in Azerbaijan; the government has yet to develop a
much-needed mechanism to identify potential trafficking victims and
refer them to safety and care; poor treatment of trafficking victims
in courtrooms continues to be a problem (2008)



Illicit drugs:


limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
CIS consumption; small government eradication program; transit point
for Southwest Asian opiates bound for Russia and to a lesser extent
the rest of Europe









page last updated on January 18, 2011

======================================================================




@Bahamas, The  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Bahamas, The




Background:


Lucayan Indians inhabited the islands when Christopher COLUMBUS
first set foot in the New World on San Salvador in 1492. British
settlement of the islands began in 1647; the islands became a colony
in 1783. Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973, The
Bahamas has prospered through tourism and international banking and
investment management. Because of its geography, the country is a
major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly shipments
to the US and Europe, and its territory is used for smuggling
illegal migrants into the US.







Geography ::Bahamas, The




Location:


Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast
of Florida, northeast of Cuba



Geographic coordinates:


24 15 N, 76 00 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 13,880 sq km
country comparison to the world: 160
land: 10,010 sq km

water: 3,870 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Connecticut



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


3,542 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream



Terrain:


long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mount Alvernia on Cat Island 63 m



Natural resources:


salt, aragonite, timber, arable land



Land use:


arable land: 0.58%

permanent crops: 0.29%

other: 99.13% (2005)



Irrigated land:


10 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


NA



Natural hazards:


hurricanes and other tropical storms cause extensive flood and wind
damage



Environment - current issues:


coral reef decay; solid waste disposal



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba; extensive island chain
of which 30 are inhabited







People ::Bahamas, The




Population:


310,426
country comparison to the world: 177
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 25.3% (male 39,493/female 38,355)

15-64 years: 68.7% (male 103,889/female 107,528)

65 years and over: 5.9% (male 6,998/female 11,289) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 29.9 years

male: 28.8 years

female: 31 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.935% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


Birth rate:


16.25 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128


Death rate:


6.89 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Urbanization:


urban population: 84% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.62 male(s)/female

total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 13.68 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 129
male: 13.68 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 13.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 70.84 years
country comparison to the world: 140
male: 68.48 years

female: 73.27 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 24


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


6,200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Nationality:


noun: Bahamian(s)

adjective: Bahamian



Ethnic groups:


black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3%



Religions:


Baptist 35.4%, Anglican 15.1%, Roman Catholic 13.5%, Pentecostal
8.1%, Church of God 4.8%, Methodist 4.2%, other Christian 15.2%,
none or unspecified 2.9%, other 0.8% (2000 census)



Languages:


English (official), Creole (among Haitian immigrants)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 95.6%

male: 94.7%

female: 96.5% (2003 est.)



Education expenditures:


3.6% of GDP (2000)
country comparison to the world: 127






Government ::Bahamas, The




Country name:


conventional long form: Commonwealth of The Bahamas

conventional short form: The Bahamas



Government type:


constitutional parliamentary democracy and a Commonwealth realm



Capital:


name: Nassau

geographic coordinates: 25 05 N, 77 21 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November



Administrative divisions:


31 districts; Acklins Islands, Berry Islands, Bimini, Black Point,
Cat Island, Central Abaco, Central Andros, Central Eleuthera, City
of Freeport, Crooked Island and Long Cay, East Grand Bahama, Exuma,
Grand Cay, Harbour Island, Hope Town, Inagua, Long Island, Mangrove
Cay, Mayaguana, Moore's Island, North Abaco, North Andros, North
Eleuthera, Ragged Island, Rum Cay, San Salvador, South Abaco, South
Andros, South Eleuthera, Spanish Wells, West Grand Bahama



Independence:


10 July 1973 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 10 July (1973)



Constitution:


10 July 1973



Legal system:


based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Arthur A. FOULKES (since 14
April 2010)

head of government: Prime Minister Hubert A. INGRAHAM (since 4 May
2007)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the prime
minister's recommendation
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (16 seats; members
appointed by the governor general upon the advice of the prime
minister and the opposition leader to serve five-year terms) and the
House of Assembly (41 seats; members elected by direct popular vote
to serve five-year terms); the government may dissolve the
parliament and call elections at any time

elections: last held on 2 May 2007 (next to be held by May 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - FNM 49.86%, PLP 47.02%;
seats by party - FNM 23, PLP 18



Judicial branch:


Privy Council in London; Courts of Appeal; Supreme (lower) Court;
Magistrates' Courts



Political parties and leaders:


Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert INGRAHAM]; Progressive Liberal
Party or PLP [Perry CHRISTIE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Friends of the Environment

other: trade unions



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITSO,
ITU, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PetroCaribe, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Cornelius A. SMITH

chancery: 2220 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 319-2660

FAX: [1] (202) 319-2668

consulate(s) general: Miami, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Nicole A. AVANT

embassy: 42 Queen Street, Nassau, New Providence

mailing address: local or express mail address: P. O. Box N-8197,
Nassau; US Department of State, 3370 Nassau Place, Washington, DC
20521-3370

telephone: [1] (242) 322-1181, 328-2206 (after hours)

FAX: [1] (242) 328-2206



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top), gold, and
aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the hoist
side; the band colors represent the golden beaches of the islands
surrounded by the aquamarine sea; black represents the vigor and
force of a united people, while the pointing triangle indicates the
enterprise and determination of the Bahamian people to develop the
rich resources of land and sea



National anthem:


name: "March On, Bahamaland!"

lyrics/music: Timothy GIBSON

note: adopted 1973; as a Commonwealth country, in addition to the
national anthem, "God Save the Queen" serves as the royal anthem
(see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Bahamas, The




Economy - overview:


The Bahamas is one of the wealthiest Caribbean countries with an
economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking. Tourism
together with tourism-driven construction and manufacturing accounts
for approximately 60% of GDP and directly or indirectly employs half
of the archipelago's labor force. Prior to 2006, a steady growth in
tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels, resorts,
and residences led to solid GDP growth but since then tourism
receipts have begun to drop off. The global recession in 2009 took a
sizeable toll on the Bahamas, resulting in a contraction in GDP and
a widening budget deficit. The decline continued in 2010 as tourism
from the US and sector investment lagged. Financial services
constitute the second-most important sector of the Bahamian economy
and, when combined with business services, account for about 36% of
GDP. However, the financial sector currently is smaller than it has
been in the past because of the enactment of new and more strict
financial regulations in 2000 that caused many international
businesses to relocate elsewhere. Manufacturing and agriculture
combined contribute approximately a tenth of GDP and show little
growth, despite government incentives aimed at those sectors.
Overall growth prospects in the short run rest heavily on the
fortunes of the tourism sector.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$8.878 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
$8.923 billion (2009 est.)

$9.285 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$7.538 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


-0.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193
-3.9% (2009 est.)

-1.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$28,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$29,000 (2009 est.)

$30,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1.2%

industry: 14.7%

services: 84.1% (2001 est.)



Labor force:


184,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 173


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 5%

industry: 5%

tourism: 50%

other services: 40% (2005 est.)



Unemployment rate:


7.6% (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Population below poverty line:


9.3% (2004)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: 27% (2000)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.4% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69


Central bank discount rate:


5.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 82
5.25% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


5.5% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143
5.5% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.284 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 130
$1.275 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$5.991 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
$5.893 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$7.993 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 101
$7.883 billion (31 December 2008)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


citrus, vegetables; poultry



Industries:


tourism, banking, cement, oil transshipment, salt, rum, aragonite,
pharmaceuticals, spiral-welded steel pipe



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


2.045 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132


Electricity - consumption:


1.902 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 135


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Oil - consumption:


36,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Oil - exports:


transshipments of 41,570 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Oil - imports:


20,560 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Natural gas - proved reserves:


NA cu m (1 January 2009 est.)



Current account balance:


-$283.2 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95
-$1.442 billion (2007 est.)



Exports:


$674 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 162


Exports - commodities:


mineral products and salt, animal products, rum, chemicals, fruit
and vegetables



Exports - partners:


US 35.99%, Singapore 18.64%, Poland 12.1%, Germany 6.24% (2009)



Imports:


$2.401 billion (2006)
country comparison to the world: 148


Imports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, manufactures, chemicals, mineral
fuels; food and live animals



Imports - partners:


US 27.23%, South Korea 20.08%, Japan 14.55%, Singapore 5.89%, China
4.75%, Venezuela 4.26%, Italy 4.12% (2009)



Debt - external:


$342.6 million (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


Exchange rates:


Bahamian dollars (BSD) per US dollar - 1 (2009), 1 (2008), 1 (2007),
1 (2006)







Communications ::Bahamas, The




Telephones - main lines in use:


129,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 140


Telephones - mobile cellular:


358,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 166


Telephone system:


general assessment: modern facilities

domestic: totally automatic system; highly developed; the Bahamas
Domestic Submarine Network links 14 of the islands and is designed
to satisfy increasing demand for voice and broadband internet
services

international: country code - 1-242; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic submarine cable
that provides links to South and Central America, parts of the
Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 (2007)



Broadcast media:


2 television stations operated by government-owned, commercially run
Broadcasting Corporation of the Bahamas (BCB); multi-channel cable
TV subscription service is available; about 15 radio stations
operating with BCB operating a multi-channel radio broadcasting
network alongside privately-owned radio stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.bs



Internet hosts:


21,939 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 107


Internet users:


115,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 156






Transportation ::Bahamas, The




Airports:


62 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 78


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 23

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 13

914 to 1,523 m: 5 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 39

1,524 to 2,437 m: 5

914 to 1,523 m: 12

under 914 m: 22 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 2,717 km
country comparison to the world: 168
paved: 1,560 km

unpaved: 1,157 km (2002)



Merchant marine:


total: 1,170
country comparison to the world: 10
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 229, cargo 191, carrier 2,
chemical tanker 80, combination ore/oil 8, container 50, liquefied
gas 78, passenger 100, passenger/cargo 29, petroleum tanker 222,
refrigerated cargo 106, roll on/roll off 12, specialized tanker 2,
vehicle carrier 60

foreign-owned: 1,080 (Angola 5, Belgium 9, Bermuda 12, Brazil 1,
Canada 102, China 4, Croatia 1, Cyprus 14, Denmark 59, Finland 8,
France 19, Germany 39, Greece 209, Guernsey 6, Hong Kong 2,
Indonesia 2, Ireland 3, Italy 5, Japan 93, Jordan 2, Kuwait 2,
Malaysia 13, Monaco 14, Montenegro 2, Netherlands 22, Nigeria 2,
Norway 198, Poland 32, Saudi Arabia 16, Singapore 7, Slovenia 1,
Spain 9, Sweden 6, Switzerland 2, Thailand 4, Trinidad and Tobago 1,
Turkey 3, UAE 27, UK 24, US 100)

registered in other countries: 10 (Bolivia 1, Malta 1, Panama 7,
Peru 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Freeport, Nassau, South Riding Point







Military ::Bahamas, The




Military branches:


Royal Bahamian Defense Force: Land Force, Navy, Air Wing (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age; no conscription (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 84,903 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 62,779

females age 16-49: 63,954 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 2,840

female: 2,758 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.7% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 152






Transnational Issues ::Bahamas, The




Disputes - international:


disagrees with the US on the alignment the northern axis of a
potential maritime boundary; continues to monitor and interdict drug
dealers and Haitian and Cuban refugees in Bahamian waters



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for US and
Europe; offshore financial center









page last updated on January 26, 2011

======================================================================




@Bahrain  (Middle East)

Introduction ::Bahrain




Background:


In 1783, the al-Khalifa family captured Bahrain from the Persians.
In order to secure these holdings, it entered into a series of
treaties with the UK during the 19th century that made Bahrain a
British protectorate. The archipelago attained its independence in
1971. Bahrain's small size and central location among Persian Gulf
countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in foreign
affairs among its larger neighbors. Facing declining oil reserves,
Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining and has
transformed itself into an international banking center. King HAMAD
bin Isa al-Khalifa, after coming to power in 1999, pushed economic
and political reforms to improve relations with the Shia community.
Shia political societies participated in 2010 parliamentary and
municipal elections. Al Wifaq, the largest Shia political society,
won the largest number of seats in the elected chamber of the
legislature. However, Shia discontent has resurfaced in recent years
with street demonstrations and occasional low-level violence.







Geography ::Bahrain




Location:


Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of Saudi Arabia



Geographic coordinates:


26 00 N, 50 33 E



Map references:


Middle East



Area:


total: 760 sq km
country comparison to the world: 187
land: 760 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


3.5 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


161 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

continental shelf: extending to boundaries to be determined



Climate:


arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers



Terrain:


mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central escarpment



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point: Jabal ad Dukhan 122 m



Natural resources:


oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish, pearls



Land use:


arable land: 2.82%

permanent crops: 5.63%

other: 91.55% (2005)



Irrigated land:


40 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


0.1 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.3 cu km/yr (40%/3%/57%)

per capita: 411 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


periodic droughts; dust storms



Environment - current issues:


desertification resulting from the degradation of limited arable
land, periods of drought, and dust storms; coastal degradation
(damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation) resulting
from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers, oil
refineries, and distribution stations; lack of freshwater resources
(groundwater and seawater are the only sources for all water needs)



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


close to primary Middle Eastern petroleum sources; strategic
location in Persian Gulf, through which much of the Western world's
petroleum must transit to reach open ocean







People ::Bahrain




Population:


738,004
country comparison to the world: 163
note: includes 235,108 non-nationals (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 25.9% (male 95,258/female 93,256)

15-64 years: 70.1% (male 293,340/female 217,815)

65 years and over: 4% (male 15,274/female 13,766) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 30.4 years

male: 33.5 years

female: 27.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.243% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Birth rate:


16.81 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120


Death rate:


4.37 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Urbanization:


urban population: 89% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.8% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.33 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 1.13 male(s)/female

total population: 1.24 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 14.76 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 126
male: 17.01 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 12.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.4 years
country comparison to the world: 84
male: 72.87 years

female: 78.01 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.47 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


fewer than 600 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 145


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


Nationality:


noun: Bahraini(s)

adjective: Bahraini



Ethnic groups:


Bahraini 62.4%, non-Bahraini 37.6% (2001 census)



Religions:


Muslim (Shia and Sunni) 81.2%, Christian 9%, other 9.8% (2001 census)



Languages:


Arabic (official), English, Farsi, Urdu



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 86.5%

male: 88.6%

female: 83.6% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 15 years (2006)



Education expenditures:


2.9% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 149






Government ::Bahrain




Country name:


conventional long form: Kingdom of Bahrain

conventional short form: Bahrain

local long form: Mamlakat al Bahrayn

local short form: Al Bahrayn

former: Dilmun



Government type:


constitutional monarchy



Capital:


name: Manama

geographic coordinates: 26 14 N, 50 34 E

time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


5 governorates; Asamah, Janubiyah, Muharraq, Shamaliyah, Wasat

note: each governorate administered by an appointed governor



Independence:


15 August 1971 (from the UK)



National holiday:


National Day, 16 December (1971); note - 15 August 1971 was the date
of independence from the UK, 16 December 1971 was the date of
independence from British protection



Constitution:


adopted 14 February 2002



Legal system:


based on Islamic law and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


20 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: King HAMAD bin Isa Al-Khalifa (since 6 March 1999);
Heir Apparent Crown Prince SALMAN bin Hamad Al-Khalifa (son of the
monarch, born 21 October 1969)

head of government: Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman Al-Khalifa
(since 1971); Deputy Prime Ministers ALI bin Khalifa bin Salman
Al-Khalifa, MUHAMMAD bin Mubarak Al-Khalifa, Jawad bin Salim
al-ARAIDH

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the monarch
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
the monarch



Legislative branch:


bicameral legislature consists of the Consultative Council (40
members appointed by the King) and the Council of Representatives or
Chamber of Deputies (40 seats; members directly elected to serve
four-year terms)

elections: Council of Representatives - last held in two rounds on
23 and 30 October 2010 (next election to be held in 2014)

election results: Council of Representatives - percent of vote by
society - NA; seats by society - al Wifaq (Shia) 18, al Asala (Sunni
Salafi) 3, al Minbar (Sunni Muslim Brotherhood) 2, independents 17



Judicial branch:


High Civil Appeals Court



Political parties and leaders:


political parties prohibited but political societies were legalized
per a July 2005 law



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Shia activists; Sunni Islamist legislators

other: several small leftist and other groups are active



International organization participation:


ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, CICA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC,
OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Huda Azra Ibrahim NUNU

chancery: 3502 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 342-1111

FAX: [1] (202) 362-2192

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph Adam ERELI

embassy: Building #979, Road 3119 (next to Al-Ahli Sports Club),
Block 331, Zinj District, Manama

mailing address: PSC 451, Box 660, FPO AE 09834-5100; international
mail: American Embassy, Box 26431, Manama

telephone: [973] 1724-2700

FAX: [973] 1727-0547



Flag description:


red, the traditional color for flags of Persian Gulf states, with a
white serrated band (five white points) on the hoist side; the five
points represent the five pillars of Islam

note: until 2002 the flag had eight white points, but this was
reduced to five to avoid confusion with the Qatari flag



National anthem:


name: "Bahrainona" (Our Bahrain)

lyrics/music: unknown

note: adopted 1971; although Mohamed Sudqi AYYASH wrote the original
lyrics, they were changed in 2002 following the transformation of
Bahrain from an emirate to a kingdom







Economy ::Bahrain




Economy - overview:


Bahrain is one of the most diversified economies in the Persian
Gulf. Highly developed communication and transport facilities make
Bahrain home to numerous multinational firms with business in the
Gulf. As part of its diversification plans, Bahrain implemented a
Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US in August 2006, the first FTA
between the US and a Gulf state. Bahrain's economy, however,
continues to depend heavily on oil. Petroleum production and
refining account for more than 60% of Bahrain's export receipts, 70%
of government revenues, and 11% of GDP (exclusive of allied
industries). Other major economic activities are production of
aluminum - Bahrain's second biggest export after oil - finance, and
construction. Bahrain competes with Malaysia as a worldwide center
for Islamic banking and continues to seek new natural gas supplies
as feedstock to support its expanding petrochemical and aluminum
industries. Unemployment, especially among the young, is a long-term
economic problem Bahrain struggles to address. In 2009, to help
lower unemployment among Bahraini nationals, Bahrain reduced
sponsorship for expatriate workers, increasing the costs of
employing foreign labor. The global financial crisis caused funding
for many non-oil projects to dry up and resulted in slower economic
growth for Bahrain. Other challenges facing Bahrain include the slow
growth of government debt as a result of a large subsidy program,
the financing of large government projects, and debt restructuring,
such as the bailout of state-owned Gulf Air.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$29.82 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108
$28.7 billion (2009 est.)

$27.83 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$21.73 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
3.1% (2009 est.)

6.3% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$40,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19
$39,400 (2009 est.)

$38,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 0.5%

industry: 56.6%

services: 42.9% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


611,000
country comparison to the world: 154
note: 44% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(2010 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 1%

industry: 79%

services: 20% (1997 est.)



Unemployment rate:


15% (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Investment (gross fixed):


26.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


Public debt:


59.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35
38.5% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95
2.8% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$6.372 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 80
$5.74 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$21.02 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81
$18.93 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$18.46 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81
$16.34 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$16.93 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 60
$21.18 billion (31 December 2008)

$28.13 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products; shrimp, fish



Industries:


petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting, iron
pelletization, fertilizers, Islamic and offshore banking, insurance,
ship repairing, tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


1.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


Electricity - production:


10.25 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Electricity - consumption:


10.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


48,560 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Oil - consumption:


39,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Oil - exports:


238,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


Oil - imports:


228,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Oil - proved reserves:


124.6 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Natural gas - production:


12.64 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Natural gas - consumption:


12.64 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Natural gas - proved reserves:


92.03 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Current account balance:


$589 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51
$560.2 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$15.13 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
$12.05 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum and petroleum products, aluminum, textiles



Exports - partners:


India 4.2%, Saudi Arabia 2.78% (2009)



Imports:


$12.14 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
$9.613 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


crude oil, machinery, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Saudi Arabia 22.91%, France 9.76%, US 7.95%, China 6.4%, South Korea
5.26%, Japan 5.19%, Germany 5.01%, UK 4.34% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.766 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
$3.54 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$14.68 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79
$10.55 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$15.77 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73
$15 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$8.399 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51
$7.549 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Bahraini dinars (BHD) per US dollar - 0.376 (2010), 0.376 (2009),
0.376 (2008), 0.376 (2007), 0.376 (2006)







Communications ::Bahrain




Telephones - main lines in use:


238,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 123


Telephones - mobile cellular:


1.578 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 137


Telephone system:


general assessment: modern system

domestic: modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital network
with rapidly growing use of mobile-cellular telephones

international: country code - 973; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and US; tropospheric scatter to
Qatar and UAE; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia; satellite
earth station - 1 (2007)



Broadcast media:


state-run broadcast media; Bahrain Radio and Television Corporation
(BRTC) operates 5 terrestrial TV networks; satellite TV systems
provide access to international broadcasts; state-run BRTC
broadcasts over several radio stations; 1 private FM station directs
broadcasts to Indian listeners; radio and TV broadcasts from
countries in the region are available (2007)



Internet country code:


.bh



Internet hosts:


53,944 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 86


Internet users:


419,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 122






Transportation ::Bahrain




Airports:


4 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 183


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 20 km; oil 32 km (2009)



Roadways:


total: 3,851 km
country comparison to the world: 158
paved: 3,121 km

unpaved: 730 km (2007)



Merchant marine:


total: 7
country comparison to the world: 126
by type: bulk carrier 2, container 4, petroleum tanker 1

foreign-owned: 5 (Kuwait 5)

registered in other countries: 6 (Honduras 5, Saint Kitts and Nevis
1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Mina' Salman, Sitrah







Military ::Bahrain




Military branches:


Bahrain Defense Forces (BDF): Ground Force (includes Air Defense),
Naval Force, Air Force, National Guard



Military service age and obligation:


17 years of age for voluntary military service; 15 years of age for
NCOs, technicians, and cadets; no conscription (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 208,365

females age 16-49: 174,375 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 170,633

females age 16-49: 146,243 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 6,590

female: 6,475 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


4.5% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 19






Transnational Issues ::Bahrain




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Bangladesh  (South Asia)

Introduction ::Bangladesh




Background:


Europeans began to set up trading posts in the area of Bangladesh in
the 16th century; eventually the British came to dominate the region
and it became part of British India. In 1947, West Pakistan and East
Bengal (both primarily Muslim) separated from India (largely Hindu)
and jointly became the new country of Pakistan. East Bengal became
East Pakistan in 1955, but the awkward arrangement of a two-part
country with its territorial units separated by 1,600 km left the
Bengalis marginalized and dissatisfied. East Pakistan seceded from
its union with West Pakistan in 1971 and was renamed Bangladesh. A
military-backed, emergency caretaker regime suspended parliamentary
elections planned for January 2007 in an effort to reform the
political system and root out corruption. In contrast to the strikes
and violent street rallies that had marked Bangladeshi politics in
previous years, the parliamentary elections finally held in late
December 2008 were mostly peaceful and Sheikh HASINA Wajed was
elected prime minister. About a third of this extremely poor country
floods annually during the monsoon rainy season, hampering economic
development.







Geography ::Bangladesh




Location:


Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between Burma and India



Geographic coordinates:


24 00 N, 90 00 E



Map references:


Asia



Area:


total: 143,998 sq km
country comparison to the world: 94
land: 130,168 sq km

water: 13,830 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Iowa



Land boundaries:


total: 4,246 km

border countries: Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km



Coastline:


580 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 18 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: up to the outer limits of the continental margin



Climate:


tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid summer (March
to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)



Terrain:


mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: Keokradong 1,230 m



Natural resources:


natural gas, arable land, timber, coal



Land use:


arable land: 55.39%

permanent crops: 3.08%

other: 41.53% (2005)



Irrigated land:


47,250 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


1,210.6 cu km (1999)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 79.4 cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%)

per capita: 560 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


droughts; cyclones; much of the country routinely inundated during
the summer monsoon season



Environment - current issues:


many people are landless and forced to live on and cultivate
flood-prone land; waterborne diseases prevalent in surface water;
water pollution, especially of fishing areas, results from the use
of commercial pesticides; ground water contaminated by naturally
occurring arsenic; intermittent water shortages because of falling
water tables in the northern and central parts of the country; soil
degradation and erosion; deforestation; severe overpopulation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


most of the country is situated on deltas of large rivers flowing
from the Himalayas: the Ganges unites with the Jamuna (main channel
of the Brahmaputra) and later joins the Meghna to eventually empty
into the Bay of Bengal







People ::Bangladesh




Population:


156,118,464 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Age structure:


0-14 years: 34.6% (male 27,065,625/female 26,913,961)

15-64 years: 61.4% (male 45,222,182/female 50,537,052)

65 years and over: 4% (male 3,057,255/female 3,254,808) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 22.9 years

male: 22.4 years

female: 23.4 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.55% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Birth rate:


23.43 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Death rate:


5.81 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Net migration rate:


-2.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174


Urbanization:


urban population: 27% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 3.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.89 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female

total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 52.54 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 48
male: 55.04 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 49.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 69.44 years
country comparison to the world: 148
male: 67.64 years

female: 71.3 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.65 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


12,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria are high risks in
some locations

water contact disease: leptospirosis

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Bangladeshi(s)

adjective: Bangladeshi



Ethnic groups:


Bengali 98%, other 2% (includes tribal groups, non-Bengali Muslims)
(1998)



Religions:


Muslim 89.5%, Hindu 9.6%, other 0.9% (2004)



Languages:


Bangla (official, also known as Bengali), English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 47.9%

male: 54%

female: 41.4% (2001 Census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 8 years

male: 8 years

female: 8 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


2.4% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 163






Government ::Bangladesh




Country name:


conventional long form: People's Republic of Bangladesh

conventional short form: Bangladesh

local long form: Gana Prajatantri Bangladesh

local short form:

former: East Bengal, East Pakistan



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Dhaka

geographic coordinates: 23 43 N, 90 24 E

time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


7 divisions; Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka, Khulna, Rajshahi, Rangpur,
Sylhet



Independence:


16 December 1971 (from West Pakistan); note - 26 March 1971 is the
date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is known
as Victory Day and commemorates the official creation of the state
of Bangladesh



National holiday:


Independence Day, 26 March (1971); note - 26 March 1971 is the date
of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is Victory Day
and commemorates the official creation of the state of Bangladesh



Constitution:


4 November 1972; effective 16 December 1972; suspended following
coup of 24 March 1982; restored 10 November 1986; amended many times



Legal system:


based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Zillur RAHMAN (since 12 February 2009)

head of government: Prime Minister Sheikh HASINA Wajed (since 6
January 2009)

cabinet: Cabinet selected by the prime minister and appointed by the
president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by National Parliament for a five-year
term (eligible for a second term); last election held on 11 February
2009 (next to be held in 2014)

election results: Zillur RAHMAN declared president-elect by the
Election Commission on 11 February 2009 (sworn in on 12 February);
he ran unopposed as president; percent of National Parliament vote -
NA



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Parliament or Jatiya Sangsad; 300 seats elected
by popular vote from single territorial constituencies; members
serve five-year terms

elections: last held on 29 December 2008 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - AL 49%, BNP 33.2%, JP
7%, JIB 4.6%, other 6.2%; seats by party - AL 230, BNP 30, JP 27,
JIB 2, other 11



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges are appointed by
the president)



Political parties and leaders:


Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA]; Bangladesh Communist Party or
BCP [Manjurul A. KHAN]; Bangladesh Nationalist Party or BNP [Khaleda
ZIA]; Bikalpa Dhara Bangladesh or BDB [Badrudozza CHOWDHURY]; Islami
Oikya Jote or IOJ [multiple leaders]; Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh or
JIB [Matiur Rahman NIZAMI]; Jatiya Party or JP (Ershad faction)
[Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Oli
AHMED]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Advocacy to End Gender-based Violence through the MoWCA (Ministry of
Women's and Children's Affairs)

other: environmentalists; Islamist groups; religious leaders;
teachers; union leaders



International organization participation:


ADB, ARF, BIMSTEC, C, CICA (observer), CP, D-8, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MINURSO, MONUSCO, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Akramul QADER

chancery: 3510 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 244-0183

FAX: [1] (202) 244-7830/2771

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador James F. MORIARTY

embassy: Madani Avenue, Baridhara, Dhaka 1212

mailing address: G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1000

telephone: [880] (2) 885-5500

FAX: [880] (2) 882-3744



Flag description:


green field with a large red disk shifted slightly to the hoist side
of center; the red disk represents the rising sun and the sacrifice
to achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the lush
vegetation of Bangladesh



National anthem:


name: "Amar Shonar Bangla" (My Golden Bengal)

lyrics/music: Rabindranath TAGORE

note: adopted 1971; Rabindranath TAGORE, a Nobel laureate, also
wrote India's national anthem







Economy ::Bangladesh




Economy - overview:


The economy has grown 5-6% per year since 1996 despite political
instability, poor infrastructure, corruption, insufficient power
supplies, and slow implementation of economic reforms. Bangladesh
remains a poor, overpopulated, and inefficiently-governed nation.
Although more than half of GDP is generated through the service
sector, 45% of Bangladeshis are employed in the agriculture sector,
with rice as the single-most-important product. Bangladesh's growth
was resilient during the 2008-09 global financial crisis and
recession. Garment exports, totaling $12.3 billion in FY09 and
remittances from overseas Bangladeshis totaling $9.7 billion in FY09
accounted for almost 25% of GDP.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$259.3 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
$244.6 billion (2009 est.)

$231.4 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$105.4 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
5.7% (2009 est.)

6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196
$1,600 (2009 est.)

$1,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 18.4%

industry: 28.7%

services: 52.9% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


73.87 million
country comparison to the world: 8
note: extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Oman,
Qatar, and Malaysia; workers' remittances estimated at $10.9 billion
in 2009-10 (2010 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 45%

industry: 30%

services: 25% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


5.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
5.1% (2009 est.)

note: about 40% of the population is underemployed; many
participants in the labor force work only a few hours a week, at low
wages



Population below poverty line:


36.3% (2008 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 8.8%

highest 10%: 26.6% (2008 est.)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


33.2 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 94
33.6 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


23.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Public debt:


39.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74
39.7% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


8.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188
5.4% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


5% (31 October 2010)
country comparison to the world: 86
5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


14.6% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38
16.38% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$13.98 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 67
$10.92 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$57.21 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
$63.03 billion (31 December 2009)



Stock of domestic credit:


$62.2 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$53.77 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$7.068 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 74
$6.671 billion (31 December 2008)

$6.793 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes, tobacco, pulses,
oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry



Industries:


cotton textiles, jute, garments, tea processing, paper newsprint,
cement, chemical fertilizer, light engineering, sugar



Industrial production growth rate:


6.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Electricity - production:


25.62 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Electricity - consumption:


23.94 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


5,733 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Oil - consumption:


96,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76


Oil - exports:


2,612 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Oil - imports:


87,660 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Oil - proved reserves:


28 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Natural gas - production:


19.7 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


Natural gas - consumption:


19.7 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Natural gas - proved reserves:


195.4 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46


Current account balance:


$3.734 billion (2010)
country comparison to the world: 34
$2.416 billion (2009)



Exports:


$16.24 billion (2010)
country comparison to the world: 73
$15.58 billion (2009)



Exports - commodities:


garments, frozen fish and seafood, jute and jute goods, leather



Exports - partners:


US 22.5%, Germany 14.2%, UK 9.6%, France 7%, Netherlands 6.4% (2009)



Imports:


$21.34 billion (2010)
country comparison to the world: 68
$20.3 billion (2009)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, chemicals, iron and steel, textiles,
foodstuffs, petroleum products, cement



Imports - partners:


China 16.16%, India 12.61%, Singapore 7.55%, Japan 4.63%, Malaysia
4.46% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$10.79 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53
$10.34 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$24.46 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$24.22 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$6.72 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83
$5.617 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$82 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
$81 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


taka (BDT) per US dollar - 70.59 (2010), 69.039 (2009), 68.554
(2008), 69.893 (2007), 69.031 (2006)







Communications ::Bangladesh




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.522 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 63


Telephones - mobile cellular:


50.4 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 24


Telephone system:


general assessment: inadequate for a modern country; introducing
digital systems; trunk systems include VHF and UHF microwave radio
relay links, and some fiber-optic cable in cities

domestic: fixed-line teledensity remains only about 1 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular telephone subscribership has been
increasing rapidly and now exceeds 30 telephones per 100 persons

international: country code - 880; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
the Middle East, and Asia; satellite earth stations - 6;
international radiotelephone communications and landline service to
neighboring countries (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-owned broadcaster (BTV) operates 1 terrestrial TV station, 3
radio networks, and about 10 local stations; 8 private satellite TV
stations and 3 private radio stations also broadcasting; foreign
satellite TV stations are gaining audience share in the large
cities; several international radio broadcasters are available (2007)



Internet country code:


.bd



Internet hosts:


68,224 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 81


Internet users:


617,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 112






Transportation ::Bangladesh




Airports:


17 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 140


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 15

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 6

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 4 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,597 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 2,768 km
country comparison to the world: 61
broad gauge: 946 km 1.676-m gauge

narrow gauge: 1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 239,226 km
country comparison to the world: 21
paved: 22,726 km

unpaved: 216,500 km (2003)



Waterways:


8,370 km
country comparison to the world: 17
note: includes up to 3,060 km main cargo routes; network reduced to
5,200 km in dry season (2007)



Merchant marine:


total: 50
country comparison to the world: 70
by type: bulk carrier 16, cargo 25, container 5, petroleum tanker 4

foreign-owned: 4 (China 1, Singapore 3)

registered in other countries: 9 (Comoros 1, Malta 1, Panama 3,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 2)
(2010)



Ports and terminals:


Chittagong, Mongla Port



Transportation - note:


the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial waters of
Bangladesh as high risk for armed robbery against ships; numerous
commercial vessels have been attacked both at anchor and while
underway; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen







Military ::Bangladesh




Military branches:


Bangladesh Defense Force: Bangladesh Army (Sena Bahini), Bangladesh
Navy (Noh Bahini, BN), Bangladesh Air Force (Biman Bahini, BAF)
(2010)



Military service age and obligation:


16 years of age for voluntary enlisted military service (Air Force);
17 years of age (Army and Navy); conscription is by law possible in
times of emergency, but has never been implemented (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 36,560,110 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 25,310,750

females age 16-49: 32,154,153 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 1,550,385

female: 1,676,137 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 112






Transnational Issues ::Bangladesh




Disputes - international:


discussions with India remain stalled to delimit a small section of
river boundary, exchange territory for 51 small Bangladeshi exclaves
in India and 111 small Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, allocate
divided villages, and stop illegal cross-border trade, migration,
violence, and transit of terrorists through the porous border;
Bangladesh protests India's fencing and walling off high-traffic
sections of the porous boundary; a joint Bangladesh-India boundary
commission resurveyed and reconstructed 92 missing pillars in 2007;
after 21 years, Bangladesh in January 2008 resumed talks with Burma
on delimiting a maritime boundary



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 26,268 (Burma)

IDPs: 65,000 (land conflicts, religious persecution) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Bangladesh is a source and transit country for
men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor
and commercial sexual exploitation; a significant share of
Bangladesh's trafficking victims are men recruited for work overseas
with fraudulent employment offers who are subsequently exploited
under conditions of forced labor or debt bondage; children are
trafficked within Bangladesh for commercial sexual exploitation,
bonded labor, and forced labor; women and children from Bangladesh
are also trafficked to India and Pakistan for sexual exploitation

tier rating: Bangladesh is placed on Tier 2 Watch List because it
does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination
of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so,
including some progress in addressing sex trafficking; the
government did not demonstrate sufficient progress in criminally
prosecuting and convicting labor trafficking offenders, particularly
those responsible for the recruitment of Bangladeshi workers for the
purpose of labor trafficking (2009)



Illicit drugs:


transit country for illegal drugs produced in neighboring countries









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Barbados  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Barbados




Background:


The island was uninhabited when first settled by the British in
1627. Slaves worked the sugar plantations established on the island
until 1834 when slavery was abolished. The economy remained heavily
dependent on sugar, rum, and molasses production through most of the
20th century. The gradual introduction of social and political
reforms in the 1940s and 1950s led to complete independence from the
UK in 1966. In the 1990s, tourism and manufacturing surpassed the
sugar industry in economic importance.







Geography ::Barbados




Location:


Caribbean, island in the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela



Geographic coordinates:


13 10 N, 59 32 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 430 sq km
country comparison to the world: 200
land: 430 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


2.5 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


97 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; rainy season (June to October)



Terrain:


relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mount Hillaby 336 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, fish, natural gas



Land use:


arable land: 37.21%

permanent crops: 2.33%

other: 60.46% (2005)



Irrigated land:


50 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


0.1 cu km (2003)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.09 cu km/yr (33%/44%/22%)

per capita: 333 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


infrequent hurricanes; periodic landslides



Environment - current issues:


pollution of coastal waters from waste disposal by ships; soil
erosion; illegal solid waste disposal threatens contamination of
aquifers



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


easternmost Caribbean island







People ::Barbados




Population:


285,653 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180


Age structure:


0-14 years: 19.2% (male 27,383/female 27,352)

15-64 years: 71.3% (male 99,829/female 103,049)

65 years and over: 9.5% (male 10,464/female 16,512) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 36.2 years

male: 35.1 years

female: 37.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.374% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 167


Birth rate:


12.43 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 159


Death rate:


8.39 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89


Net migration rate:


-0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 133


Urbanization:


urban population: 40% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.012 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female

total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 12.09 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 138
male: 13.42 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 10.74 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 74.14 years
country comparison to the world: 101
male: 71.88 years

female: 76.42 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.68 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


2,200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152


Nationality:


noun: Barbadian(s) or Bajan (colloquial)

adjective: Barbadian or Bajan (colloquial)



Ethnic groups:


black 93%, white 3.2%, mixed 2.6%, East Indian 1%, other 0.2% (2000
census)



Religions:


Protestant 63.4% (Anglican 28.3%, Pentecostal 18.7%, Methodist 5.1%,
other 11.3%), Roman Catholic 4.2%, other Christian 7%, other 4.8%,
none or unspecified 20.6% (2008 est.)



Languages:


English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population: 99.7%

male: 99.7%

female: 99.7% (2002 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 14 years (2001)



Education expenditures:


6.7% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 26






Government ::Barbados




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Barbados



Government type:


parliamentary democracy and a Commonwealth realm



Capital:


name: Bridgetown

geographic coordinates: 13 06 N, 59 37 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


11 parishes and 1 city*; Bridgetown*, Christ Church, Saint Andrew,
Saint George, Saint James, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Lucy,
Saint Michael, Saint Peter, Saint Philip, Saint Thomas



Independence:


30 November 1966 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 30 November (1966)



Constitution:


30 November 1966



Legal system:


English common law; no judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Clifford Straughn HUSBANDS
(since 1 June 1996)

head of government: Prime Minister Fruendel STUART (since 23 October
2010)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (21 seats; members
appointed by the governor general - 12 on the advice of the Prime
Minister, 2 on the advice of the opposition leader, and 7 at his
discretion) and the House of Assembly (30 seats; members are elected
by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: House of Assembly - last held on 15 January 2008 (next to
be called in 2012)

election results: House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - DLP
52.5%, BLP 47.3%; seats by party - DLP 20, BLP 10



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court of Judicature consists of a High Court and a Court of
Appeal (judges are appointed by the Service Commissions for the
Judicial and Legal Services); Caribbean Court of Justice or CCJ is
the highest court of appeal; based in Port of Spain, Trinidad and
Tobago



Political parties and leaders:


Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Owen ARTHUR]; Democratic Labor Party or
DLP [Freundel STUART]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP [David
COMISSIONG]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Barbados Secondary Teachers' Union or BSTU [Patrick FROST]; Barbados
Union of Teachers or BUT [Herbert GITTENS]; Congress of Trade Unions
and Staff Associations of Barbados or CTUSAB, (includes the BWU,
NUPW, BUT, and BSTU) [Leroy TROTMAN]; Barbados Workers Union or BWU
[Leroy TROTMAN]; Clement Payne Labor Union [David COMISSIONG];
National Union of Public Workers [Joseph GODDARD]



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador John BEALE

chancery: 2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 939-9200

FAX: [1] (202) 332-7467

consulate(s) general: Miami, New York

consulate(s): Los Angeles



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d' Affaires D. Brent
HARDT

embassy: U.S. Embassy, Wildey Business Park, Wildey, St. Michael BB
14006

mailing address: P. O. Box 302, Bridgetown BB 11000; CMR 1014, APO
AA 34055

telephone: [1] (246) 227-4399

FAX: [1] (246) 431-0179



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold, and blue with
the head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the band
colors represent the blue of the sea and sky and the gold of the
beaches; the trident head represents independence and a break with
the past (the colonial coat of arms contained a complete trident)



National anthem:


name: "The National Anthem of Barbados"

lyrics/music: Irving BURGIE/C. Van Roland EDWARDS

note: adopted 1966; the anthem is also known as "In Plenty and In
Time of Need"







Economy ::Barbados




Economy - overview:


Historically, the Barbadian economy was dependent on sugarcane
cultivation and related activities. However, in recent years the
economy has diversified into light industry and tourism with about
three-quarters of GDP and 80% of exports being attributed to
services. Growth has rebounded since 2003, bolstered by increases in
construction projects and tourism revenues, reflecting its success
in the higher-end segment, but the sector faced declining revenues
in 2009 with the global economic downturn. The country enjoys one of
the highest per capita incomes in the region. Offshore finance and
information services are important foreign exchange earners and
thrive from having the same time zone as eastern US financial
centers and a relatively highly educated workforce. The government
continues its efforts to reduce unemployment, to encourage direct
foreign investment, and to privatize remaining state-owned
enterprises. The public debt-to-GDP ratio rose to over 100% in 2009,
largely because a sharp slowdown in tourism and financial services
led to a wide budget deficit.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$6.196 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154
$6.24 billion (2009 est.)

$6.603 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$3.963 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


-0.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197
-5.5% (2009 est.)

-0.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$21,700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$21,900 (2009 est.)

$23,300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 6%

industry: 16%

services: 78% (2000 est.)



Labor force:


175,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 10%

industry: 15%

services: 75% (1996 est.)



Unemployment rate:


10.7% (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Public debt:


NA (2009)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Central bank discount rate:


7% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 45
10% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


9.25% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
10.03% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.793 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 123
$1.748 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$4.563 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 124
$4.618 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$4.554 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111
$4.124 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 81
$4.964 billion (31 December 2008)

$5.599 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


sugarcane, vegetables, cotton



Industries:


tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly for export



Industrial production growth rate:


-3.2% (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


Electricity - production:


1.003 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 145


Electricity - consumption:


939.9 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 146


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


765 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107


Oil - consumption:


9,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Oil - exports:


1,750 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117


Oil - imports:


10,390 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


Oil - proved reserves:


1.79 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Natural gas - production:


29.17 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Natural gas - consumption:


29.17 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Natural gas - proved reserves:


113.3 million cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Current account balance:


-$254 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Exports:


$385 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 172


Exports - commodities:


manufactures, sugar and molasses, rum, other foods and beverages,
chemicals, electrical components



Exports - partners:


Trinidad and Tobago 17.48%, Jamaica 15.63%, US 8.93%, Saint Lucia
8.13%, UK 5.36%, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 5.04%, Antigua and
Barbuda 4.12% (2009)



Imports:


$1.586 billion (2006)
country comparison to the world: 159


Imports - commodities:


consumer goods, machinery, foodstuffs, construction materials,
chemicals, fuel, electrical components



Imports - partners:


Trinidad and Tobago 28.52%, US 27.96%, Colombia 7.13%, China 4.76%,
UK 4.39% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$620 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 117




Debt - external:


$668 million (2003)
country comparison to the world: 155


Exchange rates:


Barbadian dollars (BBD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2 (2006), 2
(2005), 2 (2004), 2 (2003)







Communications ::Barbados




Telephones - main lines in use:


135,700 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 136


Telephones - mobile cellular:


337,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 168


Telephone system:


general assessment: island-wide automatic telephone system

domestic: fixed-line teledensity of roughly 50 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular telephone density approaching 125 per 100 persons

international: country code - 1-246; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
Islands to Trinidad; satellite earth stations - 1 (Intelsat
-Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Trinidad and Saint Lucia
(2009)



Broadcast media:


government-owned Caribbean Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) operates
the lone terrestrial television station; CBC also operates a
multi-channel cable TV subscription service; roughly a dozen radio
stations, consisting of a CBC-operated network alongside
privately-owned radio stations, in operation (2007)



Internet country code:


.bb



Internet hosts:


1,508 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 159


Internet users:


188,000 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 143






Transportation ::Barbados




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 233


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

over 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 1,600 km
country comparison to the world: 176
paved: 1,600 km (2004)



Merchant marine:


total: 95
country comparison to the world: 52
by type: bulk carrier 19, cargo 55, chemical tanker 9, passenger 1,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 5, roll
on/roll off 1

foreign-owned: 89 (Canada 13, Greece 14, Iran 4, Lebanon 2, Norway
41, Sweden 6, Syria 1, Turkey 1, UK 7)

registered in other countries: 1 (unknown 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Bridgetown







Military ::Barbados




Military branches:


Royal Barbados Defense Force: Troops Command, Barbados Coast Guard
(2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service (younger volunteers
require parental consent); no conscription (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 74,418

females age 16-49: 74,450 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 58,532

females age 16-49: 58,542 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 1,897

female: 1,884 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.8% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 151


Military - note:


the Royal Barbados Defense Force includes a land-based Troop Command
and a small Coast Guard; the primary role of the land element is to
defend the island against external aggression; the Command consists
of a single, part-time battalion with a small regular cadre that is
deployed throughout the island; it increasingly supports the police
in patrolling the coastline to prevent smuggling and other illicit
activities (2007)







Transnational Issues ::Barbados




Disputes - international:


Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago abide by the April 2006 Permanent
Court of Arbitration decision delimiting a maritime boundary and
limiting catches of flying fish in Trinidad and Tobago's exclusive
economic zone; joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's
claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which permits
Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion
of the eastern Caribbean Sea



Illicit drugs:


one of many Caribbean transshipment points for narcotics bound for
Europe and the US; offshore financial center









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Belarus  (Europe)

Introduction ::Belarus




Background:


After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR, Belarus
attained its independence in 1991. It has retained closer political
and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former Soviet
republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state union
on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic
integration. Although Belarus agreed to a framework to carry out the
accord, serious implementation has yet to take place. Since his
election in July 1994 as the country's first president, Aleksandr
LUKASHENKO has steadily consolidated his power through authoritarian
means. Government restrictions on freedom of speech and the press,
peaceful assembly, and religion remain in place.







Geography ::Belarus




Location:


Eastern Europe, east of Poland



Geographic coordinates:


53 00 N, 28 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 207,600 sq km
country comparison to the world: 85
land: 202,900 sq km

water: 4,700 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Kansas



Land boundaries:


total: 3,306 km

border countries: Latvia 171 km, Lithuania 680 km, Poland 605 km,
Russia 959 km, Ukraine 891 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between
continental and maritime



Terrain:


generally flat and contains much marshland



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Nyoman River 90 m

highest point: Dzyarzhynskaya Hara 346 m



Natural resources:


timber, peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural gas,
granite, dolomitic limestone, marl, chalk, sand, gravel, clay



Land use:


arable land: 26.77%

permanent crops: 0.6%

other: 72.63% (2005)



Irrigated land:


1,310 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


58 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 2.79 cu km/yr (23%/47%/30%)

per capita: 286 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


NA



Environment - current issues:


soil pollution from pesticide use; southern part of the country
contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident at
Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 85, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked; glacial scouring accounts for the flatness of Belarusian
terrain and for its 11,000 lakes







People ::Belarus




Population:


9,612,632 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Age structure:


0-14 years: 14.3% (male 707,550/female 667,560)

15-64 years: 71.3% (male 3,337,253/female 3,540,916)

65 years and over: 14.5% (male 446,746/female 948,508) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 38.8 years

male: 35.8 years

female: 41.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-0.368% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 221


Birth rate:


9.76 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Death rate:


13.81 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


Net migration rate:


0.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Urbanization:


urban population: 73% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.062 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.47 male(s)/female

total population: 0.87 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 6.34 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 174
male: 7.34 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 5.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 70.92 years
country comparison to the world: 139
male: 65.26 years

female: 76.93 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.25 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 215


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


13,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


1,100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69


Nationality:


noun: Belarusian(s)

adjective: Belarusian



Ethnic groups:


Belarusian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish 3.9%, Ukrainian 2.4%, other
1.1% (1999 census)



Religions:


Eastern Orthodox 80%, other (including Roman Catholic, Protestant,
Jewish, and Muslim) 20% (1997 est.)



Languages:


Belarusian (official) 36.7%, Russian (official) 62.8%, other 0.5%
(includes small Polish- and Ukrainian-speaking minorities) (1999
census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99.6%

male: 99.8%

female: 99.4% (1999 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 15 years

male: 14 years

female: 15 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


5.2% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 56






Government ::Belarus




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Belarus

conventional short form: Belarus

local long form: Respublika Byelarus'

local short form: Byelarus'

former: Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic



Government type:


republic in name, although in fact a dictatorship



Capital:


name: Minsk

geographic coordinates: 53 54 N, 27 34 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


6 provinces (voblastsi, singular - voblasts') and 1 municipality*
(horad); Brest, Homyel' (Gomel), Horad Minsk* (Minsk City), Hrodna
(Grodno), Mahilyow (Mogilev), Minsk, Vitsyebsk (Vitebsk)

note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers; Russian spelling provided for reference when
different from Belarusian



Independence:


25 August 1991 (from the Soviet Union)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 3 July (1944); note - 3 July 1944 was the date
Minsk was liberated from German troops, 25 August 1991 was the date
of independence from the Soviet Union



Constitution:


15 March 1994; revised by national referendum of 24 November 1996
giving the presidency greatly expanded powers and became effective
27 November 1996; revised again 17 October 2004 removing
presidential term limits



Legal system:


based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Aleksandr LUKASHENKO (since 20 July 1994)

head of government: Prime Minister Mikhail MYASNIKOVICH (since 28
December 2010); First Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir SEMASHKO (since
December 2003)

cabinet: Council of Ministers
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
first election took place on 23 June and 10 July 1994; according to
the 1994 constitution, the next election should have been held in
1999, however, Aleksandr LUKASHENKO extended his term to 2001 via a
November 1996 referendum; subsequent election held on 9 September
2001; an October 2004 referendum ended presidential term limits and
allowed the president to run in a third (19 March 2006) and fourth
election (19 December 2010); prime minister and deputy prime
ministers appointed by the president

election results: Aleksandr LUKASHENKO reelected president; percent
of vote - Aleksandr LUKASHENKO 79.7%, Andrey SANNIKAU 2.6%, other
candidates 17.7%; note - election marred by electoral fraud



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Assembly or Natsionalnoye Sobraniye consists of
the Council of the Republic or Sovet Respubliki (64 seats; 56
members elected by regional and Minsk city councils and 8 members
appointed by the president, to serve four-year terms) and the
Chamber of Representatives or Palata Predstaviteley (110 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: Palata Predstaviteley - last held on 28 September 2008
(next to be held in the spring of 2012); international observers
determined that despite minor improvements the election ultimately
fell short of democratic standards; pro-LUKASHENKO candidates won
every seat

election results: Sovet Respubliki - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - NA; Palata Predstaviteley - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president);
Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by the president
and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives)



Political parties and leaders:


pro-government parties: Belarusian Agrarian Party or AP [Mikhail
SHIMANSKY]; Belarusian Patriotic Movement (Belarusian Patriotic
Party) or BPR [Nikolay ULAKHOVICH, chairman]; Communist Party of
Belarus or KPB [Tatsyana HOLUBEVA]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP
[Sergey GAYDUKEVICH]; Republican Party of Labor and Justice [Vasiliy
ZADNEPRYANYY]

opposition parties: Belarusian Christian Democracy Party [Pavel
SEVERINETS] (unregistered); Belarusian Party of Communists or PKB
[Sergey KALYAKIN]; Belarusian Party of Labor [Aleksandr BUKHVOSTOV]
(unregistered); Belarusian Popular Front or BPF [Aleksey
YANUKEVICH]; Belarusian Social-Democratic Hramada [Stanislav
SHUSHKEVICH]; Belarusian Social Democratic Party Hramada
("Assembly") or BSDPH [Anatoliy LEVKOVICH]; Belarusian Social
Democratic Party People's Assembly ("Narodnaya Hramada") [Nikolay
STATKEVICH] (unregistered); Belarusian Women's Party Nadzeya
("Hope") [Yelena YESKOVA, chairperson]; Christian Conservative Party
or BPF [Zyanon PAZNIAK]; European Belarus Campaign [Andrey
SANNIKOV]; Party of Freedom and Progress [Vladimir NOVOSYAD]
(unregistered); "Tell the Truth" Campaign [Vladimir NEKLYAYEV];
United Civic Party or UCP [Anatoliy LEBEDKO]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Assembly of Pro-Democratic NGOs (unregistered) [Sergey MATSKEVICH];
Belarusian Congress of Democratic Trade Unions [Aleksandr YAROSHUK];
Belarusian Association of Journalists [Zhana LITVINA]; Belarusian
Helsinki Committee [Aleh HULAK]; Belarusian Independence Bloc
(unregistered) and For Freedom movement [Aleksandr MILINKEVICH];
Belarusian Organization of Working Women [Irina ZHIKHAR]; BPF-Youth
[Andrus KRECHKA]; Charter 97 (unregistered) [Andrey SANNIKOV];
Perspektiva small business association [Anatol SHUMCHENKO]; Nasha
Vyasna (unregistered) ("Our Spring") human rights center; "Tell the
Truth" Movement [Vladimir NEKLYAYEV]; Women's Independent Democratic
Movement [Ludmila PETINA]; Young Belarus (Malady Belarus) [Zmitser
KASPYAROVICH]; Youth Front (Malady Front) [Zmitser DASHKEVICH]



International organization participation:


BSEC (observer), CBSS (observer), CEI, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD,
FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE,
PCA, PFP, SCO (dialogue member), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Oleg
KRAVCHENKO

chancery: 1619 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 986-1604

FAX: [1] (202) 986-1805

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Michael
SCANLAN

embassy: 46 Starovilenskaya Street, Minsk 220002

mailing address: PSC 78, Box B Minsk, APO 09723

telephone: [375] (17) 210-12-83, 217-7347 through 7348

FAX: [375] (17) 334-7853



Flag description:


red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal band one-half the
width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on the hoist side
bears Belarusian national ornamentation in red; the red band color
recalls past struggles from oppression, the green band represents
hope and the many forests of the country



National anthem:


name: "My, Bielarusy" (We Belarusians)

lyrics/music: Mikhas KLIMKOVICH and Uladzimir KARYZNA/Nester
SAKALOUSKI

note: music adopted 1955, lyrics adopted 2002; after the fall of the
Soviet Union, Belarus kept the music of its Soviet-era anthem but
adopted new lyrics; also known as "Dziarzauny himn Respubliki
Bielarus" (State Anthem of the Republic of Belarus)







Economy ::Belarus




Economy - overview:


Belarus has seen limited structural reform since 1995, when
President LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of "market
socialism." In keeping with this policy, LUKASHENKO reimposed
administrative controls over prices and currency exchange rates and
expanded the state's right to intervene in the management of private
enterprises. Since 2005, the government has re-nationalized a number
of private companies. In addition, businesses have been subjected to
pressure by central and local governments, including arbitrary
changes in regulations, numerous rigorous inspections, retroactive
application of new business regulations, and arrests of "disruptive"
businessmen and factory owners. Continued state control over
economic operations hampers market entry for businesses, both
domestic and foreign. Government statistics indicate GDP growth was
strong, surpassing 10% in 2008, despite the roadblocks of a tough,
centrally directed economy with a high rate of inflation and a low
rate of unemployment. However, the global crisis pushed the country
into recession in 2009, and GDP grew only 0.2% for the year.
Slumping foreign demand hit the industrial sector hard. Minsk has
depended on a standby-agreement with the IMF to assist with balance
of payments shortfalls. In line with IMF conditions, in 2009,
Belarus devalued the ruble more than 40% and tightened some fiscal
and monetary policies. On 1 January 2010, Russia, Kazakhstan and
Belarus launched a customs union, with unified trade regulations and
customs codes still under negotiation. In late January, Russia and
Belarus amended their 2007 oil supply agreement. The new terms
raised prices for above quota purchases, increasing Belarus' current
account deficit. GDP grew 4.8% in 2010, in part, on the strength of
renewed export growth. In December 2010, Belarus, Russia and
Kazakhstan signed an agreement to form a Common Economic Space and
Russia removed all Belarusian oil duties.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$128.4 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$122.5 billion (2009 est.)

$122.3 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$52.89 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62
0.2% (2009 est.)

10.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$13,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87
$12,700 (2009 est.)

$12,600 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9%

industry: 42.9%

services: 48.1% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


5 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 75


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 14%

industry: 34.7%

services: 51.3% (2003 est.)



Unemployment rate:


1% (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5
1.6% (2005)

note: official registered unemployed; large number of underemployed
workers



Population below poverty line:


27.1% (2003 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.6%

highest 10%: 22% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


27.9 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 124
21.7 (1998)



Investment (gross fixed):


36% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177
12.9% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


13.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 30
12% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


11.68% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111
8.55% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.747 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 92
$4.381 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$13.62 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 92
$14.07 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$19.99 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
$17.15 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets, flax; beef, milk



Industries:


metal-cutting machine tools, tractors, trucks, earthmovers,
motorcycles, televisions, synthetic fibers, fertilizer, textiles,
radios, refrigerators



Industrial production growth rate:


10.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Electricity - production:


29.92 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Electricity - consumption:


30.54 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Electricity - exports:


5.062 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


9.406 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


31,400 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Oil - consumption:


173,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Oil - exports:


303,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Oil - imports:


444,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


Oil - proved reserves:


198 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Natural gas - production:


152 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Natural gas - consumption:


17 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 58


Natural gas - imports:


17.6 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Natural gas - proved reserves:


2.832 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Current account balance:


-$5.062 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169
-$6.402 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$24.49 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66
$21.34 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, mineral products, chemicals, metals,
textiles, foodstuffs



Exports - partners:


Russia 33.6%, Netherlands 13.78%, Ukraine 8.68%, Latvia 6.32%,
Poland 4.19%, Germany 4.17% (2009)



Imports:


$29.79 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$28.31 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


mineral products, machinery and equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs,
metals



Imports - partners:


Russia 56.42%, Germany 8.31%, Ukraine 4.79%, China 4.04% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$5.755 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63
$4.831 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$24.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
$19.74 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Belarusian rubles (BYB/BYR) per US dollar - 3,019.9 (2010), 2,789.5
(2009), 2,130 (2008), 2,145 (2007), 2,144.6 (2006)







Communications ::Belarus




Telephones - main lines in use:


3.969 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 40


Telephones - mobile cellular:


9.686 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 67


Telephone system:


general assessment: Belarus lags behind its neighbors in upgrading
telecommunications infrastructure; modernization of the network
progressing with roughly two-thirds of switching equipment now
digital

domestic: state-owned Beltelcom is the sole provider of fixed-line
local and long distance service; fixed-line teledensity is improving
although rural areas continue to be underserved; multiple GSM
mobile-cellular networks are experiencing rapid growth;
mobile-cellular teledensity reached 100 telephones per 100 persons
in 2009

international: country code - 375; Belarus is a member of the
Trans-European Line (TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line,
and has access to the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); 3 fiber-optic
segments provide connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and
Ukraine; worldwide service is available to Belarus through this
infrastructure; additional analog lines to Russia; Intelsat,
Eutelsat, and Intersputnik earth stations (2008)



Broadcast media:


4 state-controlled national TV channels; Polish and Russian TV
broadcasts are available in some areas; state-run Belarusian Radio
operates 3 national networks and an external service; Russian and
Polish radio broadcasts are available (2007)



Internet country code:


.by



Internet hosts:


147,311 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 71


Internet users:


2.643 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 69






Transportation ::Belarus




Airports:


67 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 74


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 35

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 22

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 7 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 32

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 2

under 914 m: 27 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 5,250 km; oil 1,528 km; refined products 1,730 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 5,537 km
country comparison to the world: 32
broad gauge: 5,512 km 1.520-m gauge (874 km electrified)

standard gauge: 25 km 1.435-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 94,797 km
country comparison to the world: 49
paved: 84,028 km

unpaved: 10,769 km (2005)



Waterways:


2,500 km (use limited by location on perimeter of country and by
shallowness) (2003)
country comparison to the world: 36


Ports and terminals:


Mazyr







Military ::Belarus




Military branches:


Belarus Armed Forces: Land Force, Air and Air Defense Force, Special
Operations Force (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-27 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 12-18 months, depending on academic
qualifications (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,435,318

females age 16-49: 2,466,762 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,708,634

females age 16-49: 2,043,083 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 55,758

female: 52,572 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105






Transnational Issues ::Belarus




Disputes - international:


Boundary demarcated with Latvia and Lithuania in 2006; 1997 boundary
delimitation treaty with Ukraine remains unratified over unresolved
financial claims, preventing demarcation and diminishing border
security



Illicit drugs:


limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for the
domestic market; transshipment point for illicit drugs to and via
Russia, and to the Baltics and Western Europe; a small and lightly
regulated financial center; anti-money-laundering legislation does
not meet international standards and was weakened further when
know-your-customer requirements were curtailed in 2008; few
investigations or prosecutions of money-laundering activities (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Belgium  (Europe)

Introduction ::Belgium




Background:


Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830; it was
occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. The country
prospered in the past half century as a modern, technologically
advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions
between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the
French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to
constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition
and autonomy.







Geography ::Belgium




Location:


Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France and the
Netherlands



Geographic coordinates:


50 50 N, 4 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 30,528 sq km
country comparison to the world: 140
land: 30,278 sq km

water: 250 sq km



Area - comparative:


about the size of Maryland



Land boundaries:


total: 1,385 km

border countries: France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
Netherlands 450 km



Coastline:


66.5 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: geographic coordinates define outer limit

continental shelf: median line with neighbors



Climate:


temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy



Terrain:


flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills, rugged
mountains of Ardennes Forest in southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: North Sea 0 m

highest point: Botrange 694 m



Natural resources:


construction materials, silica sand, carbonates



Land use:


arable land: 27.42%

permanent crops: 0.69%

other: 71.89%

note: includes Luxembourg (2005)



Irrigated land:


400 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


20.8 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 7.44 cu km/yr (13%/85%/1%)

per capita: 714 cu m/yr (1998)



Natural hazards:


flooding is a threat along rivers and in areas of reclaimed coastal
land, protected from the sea by concrete dikes



Environment - current issues:


the environment is exposed to intense pressures from human
activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry,
extensive animal breeding and crop cultivation; air and water
pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries;
uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now
resolved) had slowed progress in tackling environmental challenges



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


crossroads of Western Europe; most West European capitals within
1,000 km of Brussels, the seat of both the European Union and NATO







People ::Belgium




Population:


10,423,493 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Age structure:


0-14 years: 16.1% (male 857,373/female 822,303)

15-64 years: 66.3% (male 3,480,072/female 3,419,721)

65 years and over: 17.6% (male 760,390/female 1,074,477) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 42 years

male: 40.7 years

female: 43.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.082% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Birth rate:


10.1 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Death rate:


10.5 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Net migration rate:


1.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52


Urbanization:


urban population: 97% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.045 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female

total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 4.38 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 195
male: 4.92 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 3.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 79.37 years
country comparison to the world: 37
male: 76.21 years

female: 82.68 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.65 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


15,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Nationality:


noun: Belgian(s)

adjective: Belgian



Ethnic groups:


Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 75%, other (includes Protestant) 25%



Languages:


Dutch (official) 60%, French (official) 40%, German (official) less
than 1%, legally bilingual (Dutch and French)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99%

male: 99%

female: 99% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 16 years

male: 16 years

female: 16 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


6.1% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 36






Government ::Belgium




Country name:


conventional long form: Kingdom of Belgium

conventional short form: Belgium

local long form: Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie

local short form: Belgique/Belgie



Government type:


federal parliamentary democracy under a constitutional monarchy



Capital:


name: Brussels

geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


3 regions (French: regions, singular - region; Dutch: gewesten,
singular - gewest); Brussels-Capital Region, also known as Brussels
Hoofdstedelijk Gewest (Dutch), Region de Bruxelles-Capitale (French
long form), Bruxelles-Capitale (French short form); Flemish Region
(Flanders), also known as Vlaams Gewest (Dutch long form),
Vlaanderen (Dutch short form), Region Flamande (French long form),
Flandre (French short form); Walloon Region (Wallonia), also known
as Region Wallone (French long form), Wallonie (French short form),
Waals Gewest (Dutch long form), Wallonie (Dutch short form)

note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
complex division of responsibilities



Independence:


4 October 1830 (a provisional government declared independence from
the Netherlands); 21 July 1831 (King LEOPOLD I ascended to the
throne)



National holiday:


21 July (1831) ascension to the Throne of King LEOPOLD I



Constitution:


7 February 1831; amended many times; revised 14 July 1993 to create
a federal state



Legal system:


based on civil law system influenced by English constitutional
theory; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: King ALBERT II (since 9 August 1993); Heir Apparent
Prince PHILIPPE, son of the monarch

head of government: Prime Minister Yves LETERME (since 25 November
2009); note - the king accepted the resignation of LETERME on 26
April 2010; LETERME remains as caretaker

cabinet: Council of Ministers are formally appointed by the monarch
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary and constitutional; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition usually appointed prime minister by
the monarch and then approved by parliament



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate or Senaat in Dutch, Senat
in French (71 seats; 40 members directly elected by popular vote, 31
indirectly elected; members serve four-year terms) and a Chamber of
Deputies or Kamer van Volksvertegenwoordigers in Dutch, Chambre des
Representants in French (150 seats; members directly elected by
popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
four-year terms)

elections: Senate and Chamber of Deputies - last held on 13 June
2010 (next to be held no later than June 2014)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - N-VA 19.6%, PS
13.6%, CD&V 10%, sp.a 9.5%, MR 9.3%, Open VLD 8.2%, VB 7.6%, Ecolo
5.5%, CDH 5.1% Groen! 3.9%, other 7.7%; seats by party - N-VA 9, PS
7, CD&V 4, sp.a 4, MR 4, Open VLD 4, VB 3, Ecolo 2, CDH 2, Groen! 1;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - N-VA 17.4%, PS
13.7%, CD&V 10.9%, MR 9.3%, sp.a 9.2%, Open VLD 8.6%, VB 7.8%, CDH
5.5%, Ecolo 4.8%, Groen! 4.4%, List Dedecker 2.3%, the Popular Party
1.3%, other 4.8%; seats by party - N-VA 27, PS 26, CD&V 17, MR 18,
sp.a 13, Open VLD 13, VB 12, CDH 9, Ecolo 8, Groen! 5, List Dedecker
1, the Popular Party 1

note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
complex division of responsibilities; this reality leaves six
governments, each with its own legislative assembly



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in Dutch) or Cour de
Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for life by the
government; candidacies have to be submitted by the High Justice
Council)



Political parties and leaders:


Flemish parties: Christian Democratic and Flemish or CDV [Wouter
BEKE]; Dedecker List or LDD [Lode VEREECK]; Flemish Liberals and
Democrats or Open VLD [Alexander DE CROO]; Groen! [Wouter VAN
BESIEN] (formerly AGALEV, Flemish Greens); New Flemish Alliance or
N-VA [Bart DE WEVER]; Social Progressive Alternative or SP.A
[Caroline GENNEZ]; Vlaams Belang (Flemish Interest) or VB [Bruno
VALKENIERS]

Francophone parties: Ecolo (Francophone Greens) [Jean-Michel JAVAUX,
Sarah TURINE]; Humanist and Democratic Center or CDH [Joelle
MILQUET]; Popular Party or PP [ Mischael MODRIKAMEN]; Reform
Movement or MR [Didier REYNDERS]; Socialist Party or PS [Elio DI
RUPO]; other minor parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Christian, Socialist, and Liberal Trade Unions; Federation of
Belgian Industries

other: numerous other associations representing bankers,
manufacturers, middle-class artisans, and the legal and medical
professions; various organizations represent the cultural interests
of Flanders and Wallonia; various peace groups such as Pax Christi
and groups representing immigrants



International organization participation:


ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Australia
Group, Benelux, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
FATF, G-9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNRWA,
UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Jan MATTHYSEN

chancery: 3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 333-6900

FAX: [1] (202) 333-3079

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Howard W. GUTMAN

embassy: 27 Boulevard du Regent [Regentlaan], B-1000 Brussels

mailing address: PSC 82, Box 002, APO AE 09710

telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111

FAX: [32] (2) 511-2725



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow, and red;
the vertical design was based on the flag of France; the colors are
those of the arms of the duchy of Brabant (yellow lion with red
claws and tongue on a black field)



National anthem:


name: "La Brabanconne" (The Song of Brabant)

lyrics/music: Louis-Alexandre DECHET[French] Victor CEULEMANS
[Dutch]/Francois VAN CAMPENHOUT

note: adopted 1830; Louis-Alexandre DECHET was an actor at the
theater in which the revolution against the Netherlands began;
according to legend, he wrote the lyrics with a group of young
people in a Brussels cafe







Economy ::Belgium




Economy - overview:


This modern, private-enterprise economy has capitalized on its
central geographic location, highly developed transport network, and
diversified industrial and commercial base. Industry is concentrated
mainly in the populous Flemish area in the north. With few natural
resources, Belgium imports substantial quantities of raw materials
and exports a large volume of manufactures, making its economy
vulnerable to volatility in world markets. Roughly three-quarters of
Belgium's trade is with other EU countries. In 2009 Belgian GDP
contracted by 2.7%, the unemployment rate rose slightly, and the
budget deficit worsened because of large-scale bail-outs in the
financial sector. Belgium's budget deficit widened to 4.8% of GDP in
2010, while public debt was just over 100% of GDP. Belgian banks
have been severely affected by the international financial crisis
with three major banks receiving capital injections from the
government. An ageing population and rising social expenditures are
also increasing pressure on public finances, making it likely the
government will need to implement unpopular austerity measures to
assuage investor concerns about Belgium's ability to restore fiscal
balance.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$394.9 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31
$388.7 billion (2009 est.)

$399.5 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$461.3 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162
-2.7% (2009 est.)

0.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$37,900 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27
$37,300 (2009 est.)

$38,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 0.7%

industry: 22.1%

services: 77.2% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


5.02 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 2%

industry: 25%

services: 73% (2007 est.)



Unemployment rate:


8.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92
7.9% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


15.2% (2007 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.4%

highest 10%: 28.4% (2006)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


28 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 121
28.7 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


20.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Public debt:


102.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9
101% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
0% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


1.75% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 113
3% (31 December 2008)

note: this is the European Central Bank's rate on the marginal
lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks in the euro
area



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


6.15% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128
7.03% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$172.9 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 19
$178.7 billion (31 December 2009 est)

note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the euro
area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 16 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money circulating
within their own borders



Stock of broad money:


$539.4 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$536.7 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$801.1 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17
$767.1 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$261.4 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 26
$167.4 billion (31 December 2008)

$386.4 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain, tobacco; beef, veal,
pork, milk



Industries:


engineering and metal products, motor vehicle assembly,
transportation equipment, scientific instruments, processed food and
beverages, chemicals, basic metals, textiles, glass, petroleum



Industrial production growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Electricity - production:


82.17 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Electricity - consumption:


84.88 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


Electricity - exports:


6.561 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


17.16 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


11,220 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Oil - consumption:


608,200 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Oil - exports:


433,700 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


Oil - imports:


1.12 million bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Natural gas - consumption:


16.87 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Natural gas - imports:


16.78 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Current account balance:


-$1.129 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 141
$1.251 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$279.2 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16
$261.1 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, chemicals, finished diamonds, metals and
metal products, foodstuffs



Exports - partners:


Germany 19.58%, France 17.71%, Netherlands 11.84%, UK 7.21%, US
5.37%, Italy 4.77% (2009)



Imports:


$281.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17
$261.3 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


raw materials, machinery and equipment, chemicals, raw diamonds,
pharmaceuticals, foodstuffs, transportation equipment, oil products



Imports - partners:


Netherlands 17.93%, Germany 17.14%, France 11.69%, Ireland 6.26%, US
5.74%, UK 5.07%, China 4.09% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$23.98 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.241 trillion (30 June 2010)
country comparison to the world: 12
$1.354 trillion (31 December 2008)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$741.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6
$705.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$632.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10
$595.8 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7179 (2009), 0.6827
(2008), 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006)







Communications ::Belgium




Telephones - main lines in use:


4,255 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 215


Telephones - mobile cellular:


12.419 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 55


Telephone system:


general assessment: highly developed, technologically advanced, and
completely automated domestic and international telephone and
telegraph facilities

domestic: nationwide mobile-cellular telephone system; extensive
cable network; limited microwave radio relay network

international: country code - 32; landing point for a number of
submarine cables that provide links to Europe, the Middle East, and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat - 3) (2007)



Broadcast media:


a segmented market with the three major communities (Flemish,
French, and German-speaking) each having responsibility for their
own broadcast media; multiple TV channels exist for each community;
additionally, in excess of 90% of households are connected to cable
and can access broadcasts of TV stations from neighboring countries;
each community has a public radio network co-existing with private
broadcasters (2007)



Internet country code:


.be



Internet hosts:


4.465 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 19


Internet users:


8.113 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 36






Transportation ::Belgium




Airports:


43 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 99


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 27

over 3,047 m: 6

2,438 to 3,047 m: 9

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 9 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 16

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 15 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 1,330 km; oil 158 km; refined products 535 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 3,233 km
country comparison to the world: 54
standard gauge: 3,233 km 1.435-m gauge (2,950 km electrified) (2008)



Roadways:


total: 152,256 km
country comparison to the world: 35
paved: 119,079 km (includes 1,763 km of expressways)

unpaved: 33,177 km (2006)



Waterways:


2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use) (2008)
country comparison to the world: 44


Merchant marine:


total: 81
country comparison to the world: 55
by type: bulk carrier 21, cargo 8, chemical tanker 5, container 4,
liquefied gas 23, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 11, roll on/roll off
7

foreign-owned: 13 (Denmark 4, France 5, UK 2, US 2)

registered in other countries: 104 (Bahamas 9, Cambodia 1, Cyprus 2,
France 7, Gibraltar 2, Greece 16, Hong Kong 16, Liberia 1,
Luxembourg 9, Malta 14, Moldova 2, Mozambique 2, North Korea 1,
Panama 2, Portugal 8, Russia 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 6, Vanuatu 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


cargo ports (tonnage): Antwerp, Gent, Liege, Zeebrugge

container ports (TEUs): Antwerp (8,662,891), Zeebrugge (2,209,715)







Military ::Belgium




Military branches:


Belgian Armed Forces: Land Operations Command, Naval Operations
Command, Air Operations Commands (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
suspended (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,377,191

females age 16-49: 2,309,941 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,949,361

females age 16-49: 1,891,966 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 60,726

female: 57,882 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119






Transnational Issues ::Belgium




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


growing producer of synthetic drugs and cannabis; transit point for
US-bound ecstasy; source of precursor chemicals for South American
cocaine processors; transshipment point for cocaine, heroin,
hashish, and marijuana entering Western Europe; despite a
strengthening of legislation, the country remains vulnerable to
money laundering related to narcotics, automobiles, alcohol, and
tobacco; significant domestic consumption of ecstasy









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Belize  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Belize




Background:


Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their decline
at the end of the first millennium A.D. The British and Spanish
disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries; it formally
became the colony of British Honduras in 1854. Territorial disputes
between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of Belize
until 1981. Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992
and the two countries are involved in an ongoing border dispute.
Guatemala and Belize plan to hold a simultaneous referendum to
determine if this dispute will go before the International Court of
Justice at The Hague, though they have not yet set a date. Tourism
has become the mainstay of the economy. Current concerns include the
country's heavy foreign debt burden, high unemployment, growing
involvement in the South American drug trade, high crime rates, and
increasing incidences of HIV/AIDS.







Geography ::Belize




Location:


Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Guatemala and
Mexico



Geographic coordinates:


17 15 N, 88 45 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 22,966 sq km
country comparison to the world: 151
land: 22,806 sq km

water: 160 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Massachusetts



Land boundaries:


total: 516 km

border countries: Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km



Coastline:


386 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm in the north, 3 nm in the south; note - from
the mouth of the Sarstoon River to Ranguana Cay, Belize's
territorial sea is 3 nm; according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act,
1992, the purpose of this limitation is to provide a framework for
negotiating a definitive agreement on territorial differences with
Guatemala

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to November); dry
season (February to May)



Terrain:


flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Doyle's Delight 1,160 m



Natural resources:


arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 3.05%

permanent crops: 1.39%

other: 95.56% (2005)



Irrigated land:


30 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


18.6 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.15 cu km/yr (7%/73%/20%)

per capita: 556 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


frequent, devastating hurricanes (June to November) and coastal
flooding (especially in south)



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; water pollution from sewage, industrial effluents,
agricultural runoff; solid and sewage waste disposal



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


only country in Central America without a coastline on the North
Pacific Ocean







People ::Belize




Population:


314,522 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Age structure:


0-14 years: 37.9% (male 59,462/female 57,117)

15-64 years: 58.6% (male 91,298/female 89,170)

65 years and over: 3.5% (male 5,185/female 5,667) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 20.7 years

male: 20.5 years

female: 20.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.102% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Birth rate:


26.84 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Death rate:


5.82 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 90


Urbanization:


urban population: 52% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 3.1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female

total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 22.52 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 92
male: 25.22 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 19.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 68.23 years
country comparison to the world: 150
male: 66.54 years

female: 70 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


3.28 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


2.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


3,600 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Belizean(s)

adjective: Belizean



Ethnic groups:


mestizo 48.7%, Creole 24.9%, Maya 10.6%, Garifuna 6.1%, other 9.7%
(2000 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 49.6%, Protestant 27% (Pentecostal 7.4%, Anglican
5.3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5.2%, Mennonite 4.1%, Methodist 3.5%,
Jehovah's Witnesses 1.5%), other 14%, none 9.4% (2000)



Languages:


Spanish 46%, Creole 32.9%, Mayan dialects 8.9%, English 3.9%
(official), Garifuna 3.4% (Carib), German 3.3%, other 1.4%, unknown
0.2% (2000 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 76.9%

male: 76.7%

female: 77.1% (2000 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 13 years

female: 12 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


5.1% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 62






Government ::Belize




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Belize

former: British Honduras



Government type:


parliamentary democracy and a Commonwealth realm



Capital:


name: Belmopan

geographic coordinates: 17 15 N, 88 46 W

time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange Walk, Stann Creek, Toledo



Independence:


21 September 1981 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 21 September (1981)



Constitution:


21 September 1981



Legal system:


English law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Colville YOUNG, Sr. (since 17
November 1993)

head of government: Prime Minister Dean Oliver BARROW (since 8
February 2008); Deputy Prime Minister Gaspar VEGA (since 12 February
2008)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (12 seats;
members appointed by the governor general - 6 on the advice of the
prime minister, 3 on the advice of the leader of the opposition, and
1 each on the advice of the Belize Council of Churches and
Evangelical Association of Churches, the Belize Chamber of Commerce
and Industry and the Belize Better Business Bureau, and the National
Trade Union Congress and the Civil Society Steering Committee; to
serve five-year terms) and the House of Representatives (31 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: House of Representatives - last held on 6 February 2008
(next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - UDP 56.3%, PUP 40.9%;
seats by party - UDP 25, PUP 6



Judicial branch:


Summary Jurisdiction Courts (criminal) and District Courts (civil
jurisdiction); Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by the
governor general on the advice of the prime minister); Court of
Appeal; Privy Council in the UK; member of the Caribbean Court of
Justice (CCJ)



Political parties and leaders:


National Alliance for Belizean Rights or NABR; National Reform Party
or NRP [Cornelius DUECK]; People's National Party or PNP [Wil
MAHEIA]; People's United Party or PUP [John BRICENO]; United
Democratic Party or UDP [Dean BARROW]; Vision Inspired by the People
or VIP [Paul MORGAN]; We the People Reform Movement or WTP [Hipolito
BAUTISTA]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Society for the Promotion of Education and Research or SPEAR [Nicole
HAYLOCK]; Association of Concerned Belizeans or ACB [David VASQUEZ];
National Trade Union Congress of Belize or NTUC/B [Rene GOMEZ]



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
PetroCaribe, RG, SICA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Nestor MENDEZ

chancery: 2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 332-9636

FAX: [1] (202) 332-6888

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Vinai THUMMALAPALLY

embassy: Floral Park Road, Belmopan City, Cayo District

mailing address: P.O. Box 497, Belmopan City, Cayo District, Belize

telephone: [501] 822-4011

FAX: [501] 822-4012



Flag description:


blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom edges;
centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the coat of
arms features a shield flanked by two workers in front of a mahogany
tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I Flourish in the
Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green garland
of 50 mahogany leaves; the colors are those of the two main
political parties: blue for the PUP and red for the UDP; various
elements of the coat of arms - the figures, the tools, the mahogany
tree, and the garland of leaves - recall the logging industry that
led to British settlement of Belize

note: Belize's flag is the only national flag that depicts human
beings; two British overseas territories, Montserrat and the British
Virgin Islands, also depict humans



National anthem:


name: "Land of the Free"

lyrics/music: Samuel Alfred HAYNES/Selwyn Walford YOUNG

note: adopted 1981; as a Commonwealth country, in addition to the
national anthem, "God Save the Queen" serves as the royal anthem
(see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Belize




Economy - overview:


In this small, essentially private-enterprise economy, tourism is
the number one foreign exchange earner followed by exports of marine
products, citrus, cane sugar, bananas, and garments. The
government's expansionary monetary and fiscal policies, initiated in
September 1998, led to sturdy GDP growth averaging nearly 4% in
1999-2007, though growth slipped to 3.8% in 2008, 0% in 2009, and
1.5% in 2010 as a result of the global slowdown, natural disasters,
and the drop in the price of oil. Oil discoveries in 2006 bolstered
economic growth. Exploration efforts continue and production
increased a small amount in 2009. Major concerns continue to be the
sizable trade deficit and heavy foreign debt burden. In February
2007, the government restructured nearly all of its public external
commercial debt, which helped reduce interest payments and relieved
some of the country's liquidity concerns. A key objective remains
the reduction of poverty and inequality with the help of
international donors.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.652 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180
$2.613 billion (2009 est.)

$2.613 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.431 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166
0% (2009 est.)

3.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$8,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
$8,500 (2009 est.)

$8,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 29%

industry: 16.9%

services: 54.1% (2008 est.)



Labor force:


120,500
country comparison to the world: 179
note: shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical personnel
(2008 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 10.2%

industry: 18.1%

services: 71.7% (2007 est.)



Unemployment rate:


13.1% (2009)
country comparison to the world: 137
8.2% (2008)



Population below poverty line:


33.5% (2002 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Investment (gross fixed):


26.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118
-1.1% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


12% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 31
12% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


14.08% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53
14.14% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$389.5 million (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 161
$336.5 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.351 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150
$1.084 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.291 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 141
$1.036 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


bananas, cacao, citrus, sugar; fish, cultured shrimp; lumber



Industries:


garment production, food processing, tourism, construction, oil



Industrial production growth rate:


1.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Electricity - production:


213.5 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Electricity - consumption:


198.5 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


248.4 million kWh (2005)



Oil - production:


3,990 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Oil - consumption:


7,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157


Oil - exports:


2,260 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111


Oil - imports:


7,204 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 146


Oil - proved reserves:


6.7 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Current account balance:


-$151 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
-$93.3 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$404 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171
$381.9 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


sugar, bananas, citrus, clothing, fish products, molasses, wood,
crude oil



Exports - partners:


US 30.7%, UK 29.77%, Nigeria 4.9%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.45% (2009)



Imports:


$740 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181
$620.5 million (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods; fuels,
chemicals, pharmaceuticals; food, beverages, tobacco



Imports - partners:


US 33.65%, Mexico 14.17%, Cuba 8.51%, Guatemala 6.75%, Spain 6.07%,
China 4.12% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$219 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126
$213.7 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.01 billion (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150
$954.1 million (2008 est.)



Exchange rates:


Belizean dollars (BZD) per US dollar - 2 (2010), 2 (2009), 2 (2008),
2 (2007), 2 (2006)







Communications ::Belize




Telephones - main lines in use:


31,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 178


Telephones - mobile cellular:


161,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 175


Telephone system:


general assessment: above-average system; trunk network depends
primarily on microwave radio relay

domestic: fixed-line teledensity of 10 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular teledensity roughly 55 per 100 persons

international: country code - 501; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to South and
Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth
station - 8 (Intelsat - 2, unknown - 6) (2008)



Broadcast media:


8 privately-owned TV stations; multi-channel cable TV provides
access to foreign stations; about 25 radio stations broadcasting on
roughly 50 different frequencies; state-run radio was privatized in
1998 (2007)



Internet country code:


.bz



Internet hosts:


2,880 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 147


Internet users:


36,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 177






Transportation ::Belize




Airports:


45 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 96


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 41

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 13

under 914 m: 27 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 3,007 km
country comparison to the world: 165
paved: 575 km

unpaved: 2,432 km (2006)



Waterways:


825 km (navigable only by small craft) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 71


Merchant marine:


total: 231
country comparison to the world: 33
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 37, cargo 146, chemical
tanker 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 7,
refrigerated cargo 27, roll on/roll off 10

foreign-owned: 171 (Chile 1, China 64, Croatia 1, Cyprus 1, Estonia
1, Germany 1, Greece 2, Iceland 2, Italy 3, Japan 1, Latvia 10,
Lithuania 2, Netherlands 1, Nigeria 2, Norway 3, Peru 1, Russia 32,
Singapore 7, Spain 1, Syria 2, Turkey 18, UAE 5, UK 4, Ukraine 6)
(2010)



Ports and terminals:


Belize City, Big Creek







Military ::Belize




Military branches:


Belize Defense Force (BDF): Army, BDF Air Wing (includes Special
Boat Unit), BDF Volunteer Guard (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; laws allow for
conscription only if volunteers are insufficient; conscription has
never been implemented; volunteers typically outnumber available
positions by 3:1 (2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 79,088

females age 16-49: 77,147 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 57,759

females age 16-49: 55,903 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 3,678

female: 3,543 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.4% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 107






Transnational Issues ::Belize




Disputes - international:


OAS-initiated Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and
Confidence Building Measures saw cooperation in repatriation of
Guatemalan squatters and other areas, but Guatemalan land and
maritime claims in Belize and the Caribbean Sea remain unresolved;
the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002 Differendum serves in
lieu of the contiguous international boundary to control squatting
in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of Belize's border region;
Honduras claims Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays in its
constitution but agreed to a joint ecological park under the
Differendum



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Belize is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; the most common
form of trafficking in Belize is the internal sex trafficking of
minors; some Central American men, women, and children, particularly
from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, migrate voluntarily to
Belize in search of work but are subsequently subjected to
conditions of forced labor or forced prostitution

tier rating: Belize is placed on Tier 2 Watch List because it does
not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of
trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so;
despite efforts to raise public awareness of human trafficking and
provide protection services for trafficking victims, the government
did not show evidence of progress in convicting and sentencing
trafficking offenders last year (2009)



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for cocaine; small-scale illicit producer of
cannabis, primarily for local consumption; offshore sector
money-laundering activity related to narcotics trafficking and other
crimes (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Benin  (Africa)

Introduction ::Benin




Background:


Present day Benin was the site of Dahomey, a prominent West African
kingdom that rose in the 15th century. The territory became a French
Colony in 1872 and achieved independence on 1 August 1960, as the
Republic of Benin. A succession of military governments ended in
1972 with the rise to power of Mathieu KEREKOU and the establishment
of a government based on Marxist-Leninist principles. A move to
representative government began in 1989. Two years later, free
elections ushered in former Prime Minister Nicephore SOGLO as
president, marking the first successful transfer of power in Africa
from a dictatorship to a democracy. KEREKOU was returned to power by
elections held in 1996 and 2001, though some irregularities were
alleged. KEREKOU stepped down at the end of his second term in 2006
and was succeeded by Thomas YAYI Boni, a political outsider and
independent. YAYI has begun a high profile fight against corruption
and has strongly promoted accelerating Benin's economic growth.







Geography ::Benin




Location:


Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Nigeria and
Togo



Geographic coordinates:


9 30 N, 2 15 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 112,622 sq km
country comparison to the world: 101
land: 110,622 sq km

water: 2,000 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Pennsylvania



Land boundaries:


total: 1,989 km

border countries: Burkina Faso 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773 km,
Togo 644 km



Coastline:


121 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north



Terrain:


mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low mountains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mont Sokbaro 658 m



Natural resources:


small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber



Land use:


arable land: 23.53%

permanent crops: 2.37%

other: 74.1% (2005)



Irrigated land:


120 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


25.8 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.13 cu km/yr (32%/23%/45%)

per capita: 15 cu m/yr (2001)



Natural hazards:


hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north from December to
March



Environment - current issues:


inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching threatens wildlife
populations; deforestation; desertification



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


sandbanks create difficult access to a coast with no natural
harbors, river mouths, or islands







People ::Benin




Population:


9,056,010
country comparison to the world: 90
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 45.2% (male 2,028,493/female 1,948,353)

15-64 years: 52.1% (male 2,275,662/female 2,308,945)

65 years and over: 2.6% (male 94,569/female 135,810) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 17.3 years

male: 16.9 years

female: 17.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.944% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Birth rate:


38.67 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


Death rate:


9.23 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89


Urbanization:


urban population: 41% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female

total population: 1 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 63.13 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 30
male: 66.51 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 59.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 59.42 years
country comparison to the world: 188
male: 58.21 years

female: 60.68 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


5.4 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


64,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


3,300 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Beninese (singular and plural)

adjective: Beninese



Ethnic groups:


Fon and related 39.2%, Adja and related 15.2%, Yoruba and related
12.3%, Bariba and related 9.2%, Peulh and related 7%, Ottamari and
related 6.1%, Yoa-Lokpa and related 4%, Dendi and related 2.5%,
other 1.6% (includes Europeans), unspecified 2.9% (2002 census)



Religions:


Christian 42.8% (Catholic 27.1%, Celestial 5%, Methodist 3.2%, other
Protestant 2.2%, other 5.3%), Muslim 24.4%, Vodoun 17.3%, other
15.5% (2002 census)



Languages:


French (official), Fon and Yoruba (most common vernaculars in
south), tribal languages (at least six major ones in north)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 34.7%

male: 47.9%

female: 23.3% (2002 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 9 years

male: 10 years

female: 6 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


3.6% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 130






Government ::Benin




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Benin

conventional short form: Benin

local long form: Republique du Benin

local short form: Benin

former: Dahomey



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Porto-Novo (official capital)

geographic coordinates: 6 29 N, 2 37 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

note: Cotonou (seat of government)



Administrative divisions:


12 departments; Alibori, Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou, Collines,
Kouffo, Donga, Littoral, Mono, Oueme, Plateau, Zou



Independence:


1 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


National Day, 1 August (1960)



Constitution:


adopted by referendum 2 December 1990



Legal system:


based on French civil law and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April 2006);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April 2006)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); runoff election held on 19 March 2006
(next to be held in March 2011)

election results: Thomas YAYI Boni elected president; percent of
vote - Thomas YAYI Boni 74.5%, Adrien HOUNGBEDJI 25.5%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (83 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 31 March 2007 (next to be held by March 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FCBE 35, ADD 20, PRD 10, other and independents 18



Judicial branch:


Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle; Supreme Court or
Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice



Political parties and leaders:


African Movement for Democracy and Progress or MADEP [Sefou
FAGBOHOUN]; Alliance for Dynamic Democracy or ADD; Alliance of
Progress Forces or AFP; Benin Renaissance or RB [Rosine SOGLO];
Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien HOUNGBEDJI]; Force Cowrie
for an Emerging Benin or FCBE; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or
IPD [Theophile NATA]; Key Force or FC [Lazare SEHOUETO]; Movement
for the People's Alternative or MAP [Olivier CAPO-CHICHI]; Rally for
Democracy and Progress or RDP [Dominique HOUNGNINOU]; Social
Democrat Party or PSD [Bruno AMOUSSOU]; Union for Democracy and
National Solidarity or UDS [Sacca LAFIA]; Union for the Relief or
UPR [Issa SALIFOU]

note: approximately 20 additional minor parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: economic groups; environmentalists; political groups;
teachers' unions and other educational groups



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO,
NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Cyrille Segbe OGUIN

chancery: 2124 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 232-6656

FAX: [1] (202) 265-1996



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador James A. KNIGHT

embassy: Rue Caporal Bernard Anani, Cotonou

mailing address: 01 B. P. 2012, Cotonou

telephone: [229] 21-30-06-50

FAX: [229] 21-30-03-84



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red (bottom) with a
vertical green band on the hoist side; green symbolizes hope and
revival, yellow wealth, and red courage

note: uses the popular Pan-African colors of Ethiopia



National anthem:


name: "L'Aube Nouvelle" (The Dawn of a New Day)

lyrics/music: Gilbert Jean DAGNON

note: adopted 1960







Economy ::Benin




Economy - overview:


The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on
subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and regional trade.
Growth in real output had averaged about 4% before the global
recession, but fell to 2.5% in 2009 and 3% in 2010. Inflation has
subsided over the past several years. In order to raise growth,
Benin plans to attract more foreign investment, place more emphasis
on tourism, facilitate the development of new food processing
systems and agricultural products, and encourage new information and
communication technology. Specific projects to improve the business
climate by reforms to the land tenure system, the commercial justice
system, and the financial sector were included in Benin's $307
million Millennium Challenge Account grant signed in February 2006.
The 2001 privatization policy continues in telecommunications,
water, electricity, and agriculture. As result of these reforms,
Benin has become the most competitive country in the West African
Economic and Monetary Union, according to the World Economic Forum.
The Paris Club and bilateral creditors have eased the external debt
situation, with Benin benefiting from a G-8 debt reduction announced
in July 2005, while pressing for more rapid structural reforms. An
insufficient electrical supply continues to adversely affect Benin's
economic growth though the government recently has taken steps to
increase domestic power production.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$14.2 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139
$13.79 billion (2009 est.)

$13.42 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$6.494 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127
2.7% (2009 est.)

5.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198
$1,600 (2009 est.)

$1,600 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 33.2%

industry: 14.5%

services: 52.3% (2007 est.)



Labor force:


3.662 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93


Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


37.4% (2007 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.1%

highest 10%: 29% (2003)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


36.5 (2003)
country comparison to the world: 82


Investment (gross fixed):


18.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
2.2% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 91
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.551 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 125
$1.619 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$2.424 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138
$2.517 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.222 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143
$1.269 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cotton, corn, cassava (tapioca), yams, beans, palm oil, peanuts,
cashews; livestock



Industries:


textiles, food processing, construction materials, cement



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Electricity - production:


124 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Electricity - consumption:


597 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 156


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


588 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117


Oil - consumption:


23,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


Oil - exports:


8,770 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Oil - imports:


28,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Oil - proved reserves:


8 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Natural gas - proved reserves:


1.133 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Current account balance:


-$582 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121
-$644 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$1.125 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150
$994 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


cotton, cashews, shea butter, textiles, palm products, seafood



Exports - partners:


India 19.72%, China 13.18%, Niger 6.94%, Nigeria 6.56%, Indonesia
5.73%, Togo 5.63%, Namibia 4.17% (2009)



Imports:


$1.812 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153
$1.703 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, capital goods, petroleum products



Imports - partners:


China 35.62%, US 7.51%, France 7.38%, Thailand 6.71%, Malaysia
6.13%, Netherlands 4.83%, Belgium 4.02% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$1.254 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
$1.23 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$2.894 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131
$986.2 million (31 December 2008 est.)



Exchange rates:


Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 506.04
(2010), 472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006)







Communications ::Benin




Telephones - main lines in use:


127,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 141


Telephones - mobile cellular:


5.033 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 94


Telephone system:


general assessment: inadequate system of open-wire, microwave radio
relay, and cellular connections; fixed-line network characterized by
aging, deteriorating equipment

domestic: fixed-line teledensity only about 2 per 100 persons;
spurred by the presence of multiple mobile-cellular providers,
cellular telephone subscribership has been increasing rapidly

international: country code - 229; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; long distance fiber-optic links with Togo, Burkina Faso,
Niger, and Nigeria; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat-Atlantic
Ocean) (2008)



Broadcast media:


state-run Office de Radiodiffusion et de Television du Benin (ORTB)
operates a TV station with multiple channels giving it a wide
broadcast reach; several privately-owned TV stations broadcast from
Cotonou; satellite TV subscription service is available; state-owned
radio, under ORTB control, includes a national station supplemented
by a number of regional stations; substantial number of
privately-owned radio broadcast stations; transmissions of a few
international broadcasters are available on FM in Cotonou (2007)



Internet country code:


.bj



Internet hosts:


1,286 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 165


Internet users:


200,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 139






Transportation ::Benin




Airports:


5 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 180


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Railways:


total: 578 km
country comparison to the world: 112
narrow gauge: 578 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 16,000 km
country comparison to the world: 120
paved: 1,400 km

unpaved: 14,600 km (2006)



Waterways:


150 km (on River Niger along northern border) (2007)
country comparison to the world: 102


Ports and terminals:


Cotonou







Military ::Benin




Military branches:


Benin Armed Forces (FAB): Army (l'Arme de Terre), Benin Navy (Forces
Navales Beninois, FNB), Benin People's Air Force (Force Aerienne
Populaire de Benin, FAPB) (2008)



Military service age and obligation:


21 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service; in
practice, volunteers may be taken at the age of 18; both sexes are
eligible for military service; conscript tour of duty - 18 months
(2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,023,449

females age 16-49: 1,971,788 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,331,242

females age 16-49: 1,345,145 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 105,468

female: 101,603 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 129






Transnational Issues ::Benin




Disputes - international:


in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two
villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005
ICJ decision; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint with
Nigeria, remains undemarcated; in 2005, Nigeria ceded thirteen
villages to Benin, but border relations remain strained by rival
cross-border gang clashes; talks continue between Benin and Togo on
funding the Adjrala hydroelectric dam on the Mona River



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 9,444 (Togo) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point used by traffickers for cocaine destined for
Western Europe; vulnerable to money laundering due to poorly
enforced financial regulations (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Bermuda  (North America)

Introduction ::Bermuda




Background:


Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English colonists
headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North American
winters first developed in Victorian times. Tourism continues to be
important to the island's economy, although international business
has overtaken it in recent years. Bermuda has developed into a
highly successful offshore financial center. Although a referendum
on independence from the UK was soundly defeated in 1995, the
present government has reopened debate on the issue.







Geography ::Bermuda




Location:


North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, east of
South Carolina (US)



Geographic coordinates:


32 20 N, 64 45 W



Map references:


North America



Area:


total: 54 sq km
country comparison to the world: 231
land: 54 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about one-third the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


103 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in winter



Terrain:


low hills separated by fertile depressions



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Town Hill 76 m



Natural resources:


limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism



Land use:


arable land: 20%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 80% (55% developed, 45% rural/open space) (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


hurricanes (June to November)



Environment - current issues:


sustainable development



Geography - note:


consists of about 138 coral islands and islets with ample rainfall,
but no rivers or freshwater lakes; some land was leased by the US
Government from 1941 to 1995







People ::Bermuda




Population:


68,265 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Age structure:


0-14 years: 18.3% (male 6,271/female 6,163)

15-64 years: 67.5% (male 22,555/female 23,215)

65 years and over: 14.2% (male 3,979/female 5,654) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 41.6 years

male: 40.2 years

female: 43.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.62% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147


Birth rate:


11.47 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Death rate:


7.43 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120


Net migration rate:


2.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Urbanization:


urban population: 100% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.018 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female

total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 2.46 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 221
male: 2.57 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 2.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 80.6 years
country comparison to the world: 19
male: 77.37 years

female: 83.88 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.98 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.3% (2005)
country comparison to the world: 90


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


163 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 161


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


392 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 100


Nationality:


noun: Bermudian(s)

adjective: Bermudian



Ethnic groups:


black 54.8%, white 34.1%, mixed 6.4%, other races 4.3%, unspecified
0.4% (2000 census)



Religions:


Anglican 23%, Roman Catholic 15%, African Methodist Episcopal 11%,
other Protestant 18%, other 12%, unaffiliated 6%, unspecified 1%,
none 14% (2000 census)



Languages:


English (official), Portuguese



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 98%

male: 98%

female: 99% (2005 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 14 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


1.2% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 180






Government ::Bermuda




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Bermuda

former: Somers Islands



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK



Government type:


parliamentary; self-governing territory



Capital:


name: Hamilton

geographic coordinates: 32 17 N, 64 47 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November



Administrative divisions:


9 parishes and 2 municipalities*; Devonshire, Hamilton, Hamilton*,
Paget, Pembroke, Saint George*, Saint George's, Sandys, Smith's,
Southampton, Warwick



Independence:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



National holiday:


Bermuda Day, 24 May



Constitution:


8 June 1968; amended 1989 and 2003



Legal system:


English law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Sir Richard GOZNEY (since 12 December 2007)

head of government: Premier Paula COX (since 29 October 2010);
Deputy Premier Derrick BURGESS

cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the premier, appointed by the governor
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition usually appointed
premier by the governor



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats; members
appointed by the governor, the premier, and the opposition) and the
House of Assembly (36 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve up to five-year terms)

elections: last general election held on 18 December 2007 (next to
be held not later than 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - PLP 52.5%, UBP 47.3%;
seats by party - PLP 22, UBP 14



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts



Political parties and leaders:


Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Ewart BROWN]; United Bermuda Party
or UBP [Kim SWAN]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Bermuda Employer's Union [Eddie SAINTS]; Bermuda Industrial Union or
BIU [Derrick BURGESS]; Bermuda Public Services Union or BPSU [Ed
BALL]; Bermuda Union of Teachers [Michael CHARLES]



International organization participation:


Caricom (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ITUC, UPU, WCO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Consul General Grace W. SHELTON

consulate(s) general: Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire DVO3

mailing address: P. O. Box HM325, Hamilton HMBX; American Consulate
General Hamilton, US Department of State, 5300 Hamilton Place,
Washington, DC 20520-5300

telephone: [1] (441) 295-1342

FAX: [1] (441) 295-1592, 296-9233



Flag description:


red, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Bermudian coat of arms (a white shield with a red lion standing
on a green grassy field holding a scrolled shield showing the
sinking of the ship Sea Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the
outer half of the flag; it was the shipwreck of the vessel, filled
with English colonists originally bound for Virginia, that led to
settling of Bermuda

note: the flag is unusual in that it is only British overseas
territory that uses a red ensign, all others use blue



National anthem:


name: "Hail to Bermuda"

lyrics/music: Bette JOHNS

note: serves as a local anthem; as a territory of the United
Kingdom, "God Save the Queen" is official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Bermuda




Economy - overview:


Bermuda enjoys the third highest per capita income in the world,
more than 50% higher than that of the US; the average cost of a
house by the mid-2000s exceeded $1,000,000. Its economy is primarily
based on providing financial services for international business and
luxury facilities for tourists. A number of reinsurance companies
relocated to the island following the 11 September 2001 attacks and
again after Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 contributing to the
expansion of an already robust international business sector.
Bermuda's tourism industry - which derives over 80% of its visitors
from the US - continues to struggle but remains the island's number
two industry. Most capital equipment and food must be imported.
Bermuda's industrial sector is largely focused on construction and
agriculture is limited, with only 20% of the land being arable.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$4.5 billion (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


GDP (official exchange rate):


$NA



GDP - real growth rate:


4.6% (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$69,900 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1%

industry: 10%

services: 89% (2002 est.)



Labor force:


38,360 (2004)
country comparison to the world: 200


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture and fishing: 3%

laborers: 17%

clerical: 19%

professional and technical: 21%

administrative and managerial: 15%

sales: 7%

services: 19% (2004 est.)



Unemployment rate:


2.1% (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Population below poverty line:


19% (2000)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.8% (November 2005)
country comparison to the world: 86


Market value of publicly traded shares:


$1.36 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 95
$1.912 billion (31 December 2008)

$2.731 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy products, honey



Industries:


international business, tourism, light manufacturing



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


675.6 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152


Electricity - consumption:


628.3 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Oil - consumption:


5,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 208


Oil - imports:


4,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Exports:


$763 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 160


Exports - commodities:


reexports of pharmaceuticals



Exports - partners:


Spain 16.91%, India 10.15%, Brazil 9.55%, Germany 7.4% (2009)



Imports:


$1.162 billion (2006)
country comparison to the world: 168


Imports - commodities:


clothing, fuels, machinery and transport equipment, construction
materials, chemicals, food and live animals



Imports - partners:


US 31.2%, South Korea 26.71%, Brazil 6.77%, Ireland 6.11%, Singapore
5.35% (2009)



Debt - external:


$160 million (FY99/00)
country comparison to the world: 177


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA



Exchange rates:


Bermudian dollars (BMD) per US dollar - 1.0000 (fixed rate pegged to
the US dollar)







Communications ::Bermuda




Telephones - main lines in use:


57,700 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 157


Telephones - mobile cellular:


85,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 187


Telephone system:


general assessment: good

domestic: fully automatic digital telephone system; fiber optic
trunk lines

international: country code - 1-441; landing points for the
GlobeNet, Gemini Bermuda, and the Challenger Bermuda-1
(CB-1)submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3 (2007)



Broadcast media:


3 television stations; cable and satellite TV subscription services
are available; roughly 10 radio stations operating (2007)



Internet country code:


.bm



Internet hosts:


19,855 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 112


Internet users:


54,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 172






Transportation ::Bermuda




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 236


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 447 km
country comparison to the world: 196
paved: 447 km

note: public roads - 225 km; private roads - 222 km (2007)



Merchant marine:


total: 139
country comparison to the world: 43
by type: bulk carrier 22, chemical tanker 3, container 15, liquefied
gas 38, passenger 26, passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker 20,
refrigerated cargo 9

foreign-owned: 114 (China 13, France 1, Germany 15, Greece 2, Hong
Kong 5, Ireland 2, Israel 3, Japan 2, Monaco 2, Nigeria 11, Norway
5, Sweden 17, UK 11, US 25)

registered in other countries: 180 (Bahamas 12, Cyprus 1, Greece 3,
Hong Kong 12, Isle of Man 7, Liberia 4, Malta 8, Marshall Islands
34, Norway 5, Panama 15, Philippines 43, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 1, Singapore 21, UK 9, US 5) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Hamilton, Ireland Island, Saint George







Military ::Bermuda




Military branches:


Bermuda Regiment (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


18-30 years of age for voluntary or compulsory enlistment in the
Bermuda Regiment; males must register at age 18; term of service is
38 months (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 15,217 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 12,405

females age 16-49: 12,327 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 436

female: 397 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.11% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK







Transnational Issues ::Bermuda




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Bhutan  (South Asia)

Introduction ::Bhutan




Background:


In 1865, Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu, under
which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for ceding
some border land to British India. Under British influence, a
monarchy was set up in 1907; three years later, a treaty was signed
whereby the British agreed not to interfere in Bhutanese internal
affairs and Bhutan allowed Britain to direct its foreign affairs.
This role was assumed by independent India after 1947. Two years
later, a formal Indo-Bhutanese accord returned the areas of Bhutan
annexed by the British, formalized the annual subsidies the country
received, and defined India's responsibilities in defense and
foreign relations. A refugee issue of over 100,000 Bhutanese in
Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of the refugees are housed in seven
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
camps. In March 2005, King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK unveiled the
government's draft constitution - which would introduce major
democratic reforms - and pledged to hold a national referendum for
its approval. In December 2006, the King abdicated the throne to his
son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK, in order to give him experience
as head of state before the democratic transition. In early 2007,
India and Bhutan renegotiated their treaty to allow Bhutan greater
autonomy in conducting its foreign policy, although Thimphu
continues to coordinate policy decisions in this area with New
Delhi. In July 2007, seven ministers of Bhutan's ten-member cabinet
resigned to join the political process, and the cabinet acted as a
caretaker regime until democratic elections for seats to the
country's first parliament were completed in March 2008. The king
ratified the country's first constitution in July 2008.







Geography ::Bhutan




Location:


Southern Asia, between China and India



Geographic coordinates:


27 30 N, 90 30 E



Map references:


Asia



Area:


total: 38,394 sq km
country comparison to the world: 136
land: 38,394 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about one-half the size of Indiana



Land boundaries:


total: 1,075 km

border countries: China 470 km, India 605 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot summers in
central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in Himalayas



Terrain:


mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Drangeme Chhu 97 m

highest point: Gangkar Puensum 7,570 m



Natural resources:


timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbonate



Land use:


arable land: 2.3%

permanent crops: 0.43%

other: 97.27% (2005)



Irrigated land:


400 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


95 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.43 cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%)

per capita: 199 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


violent storms from the Himalayas are the source of the country's
name, which translates as Land of the Thunder Dragon; frequent
landslides during the rainy season



Environment - current issues:


soil erosion; limited access to potable water



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


landlocked; strategic location between China and India; controls
several key Himalayan mountain passes







People ::Bhutan




Population:


699,847
country comparison to the world: 164
note: the Factbook population estimate is consistent with the first
modern census of Bhutan, conducted in 2005; previous Factbook
population estimates for this country, which were on the order of
three times the total population reported here, were based on
Bhutanese government publications that did not include the census
(July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 30.2% (male 106,410/female 102,164)

15-64 years: 64.3% (male 235,988/female 208,484)

65 years and over: 5.5% (male 20,169/female 17,926) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 24.3 years

male: 25 years

female: 23.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.236% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Birth rate:


19.62 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


Death rate:


7.25 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 88


Urbanization:


urban population: 35% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4.9% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.13 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 1.12 male(s)/female

total population: 1.1 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 46.92 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 55
male: 47.8 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 45.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 66.71 years
country comparison to the world: 158
male: 65.89 years

female: 67.57 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.29 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Bhutanese (singular and plural)

adjective: Bhutanese



Ethnic groups:


Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35% (includes Lhotsampas - one of several
Nepalese ethnic groups), indigenous or migrant tribes 15%



Religions:


Lamaistic Buddhist 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced Hinduism 25%



Languages:


Dzongkha (official), Bhotes speak various Tibetan dialects, Nepalese
speak various Nepalese dialects



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 47%

male: 60%

female: 34% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years

male: 12 years

female: 11 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


5.1% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 63






Government ::Bhutan




Country name:


conventional long form: Kingdom of Bhutan

conventional short form: Bhutan

local long form: Druk Gyalkhap

local short form: Druk Yul



Government type:


constitutional monarchy



Capital:


name: Thimphu

geographic coordinates: 27 29 N, 89 36 E

time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


20 districts (dzongkhag, singular and plural); Bumthang, Chhukha,
Chirang, Daga, Gasa, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi, Mongar, Paro,
Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi, Samdrup Jongkhar, Shemgang, Tashigang,
Tashi Yangtse, Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang



Independence:


1907 (became a unified kingdom under its first hereditary king)



National holiday:


National Day (Ugyen WANGCHUCK became first hereditary king), 17
December (1907)



Constitution:


ratified 18 July 2008



Legal system:


based on Indian law and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: King Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK (since 14
December 2006); note - King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK abdicated the
throne on 14 December 2006 and his son immediately succeeded him;
the nearly two-year delay between the former King's abdication and
his son's coronation on 6 November 2008 was to ensure an
astrologically auspicious coronation date and to give the new king,
who had limited experience, deeper administrative expertise under
the guidance of this father

head of government: Prime Minister Jigme THINLEY (since 9 April 2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers (Lhengye Shungtsog) nominated by the
monarch, approved by the National Assembly; members serve fixed,
five-year terms; note - there is also a Royal Advisory Council
(Lodoi Tsokde); members are nominated by the monarch
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary, but democratic reforms in
July 1998 grant the National Assembly authority to remove the
monarch with two-thirds vote; election of a new National Assembly
occurred in March 2008; the leader of the majority party nominated
as the prime minister



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the non-partisan National Council
(25 seats; 20 members elected by each of the 20 electoral districts
(dzongkhags) for four-year terms and 5 members nominated by the
King); and the National Assembly (47 seats; members elected by
direct, popular vote for five-year terms)

elections: National Council elections last held on 31 December 2007
and 29 January 2008 (next to be held by December 2012); National
Assembly elections last held on 24 March 2008 (next to be held by
March 2013)

election results: National Council - NA; National Assembly - percent
of vote by party - DPT 67%, PDP 33%; seats by party - DPT 45, PDP 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court (judges appointed
by the monarch); note - the draft constitution establishes a Supreme
Court that will serve as chief court of appeal



Political parties and leaders:


Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (Druk Phuensum Tshogpa) or DPT
[Jigme THINLEY]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Tshering TOBGAY]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


United Front for Democracy (exiled); Druk National Congress (exiled)

other: Buddhist clergy; ethnic Nepalese organizations leading
militant antigovernment campaign; Indian merchant community



International organization participation:


ADB, BIMSTEC, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF,
Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, NAM,
OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none; note - the Permanent Mission to the UN for Bhutan has consular
jurisdiction in the US; the permanent representative to the UN is
Daw PENJO; address: 763 First Avenue, New York, NY 10017; telephone
[1] (212) 682-2268; FAX [1] (212) 661-0551

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US and Bhutan have no formal diplomatic relations, although
informal contact is maintained between the Bhutanese and US Embassy
in New Delhi (India)



Flag description:


divided diagonally from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper
triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is orange; centered along
the dividing line is a large black and white dragon facing away from
the hoist side; the dragon, called the Druk (Thunder Dragon), is the
emblem of the nation; its white color stands for purity and the
jewels in its claws symbolize wealth; the background colors
represent spiritual and secular powers within Bhutan: the orange is
associated with Bhuddism, while the yellow denotes the ruling dynasty



National anthem:


name: "Druk tsendhen" (The Thunder Dragon Kingdom)

lyrics/music: Gyaldun Dasho Thinley DORJI/Aku TONGMI

note: adopted 1953







Economy ::Bhutan




Economy - overview:


The economy, one of the world's smallest and least developed, is
based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the main livelihood
for more than 60% of the population. Agriculture consists largely of
subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged mountains dominate
the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure
difficult and expensive. The economy is closely aligned with India's
through strong trade and monetary links and dependence on India's
financial assistance. The industrial sector is technologically
backward, with most production of the cottage industry type. Most
development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian
migrant labor. Model education, social, and environment programs are
underway with support from multilateral development organizations.
Each economic program takes into account the government's desire to
protect the country's environment and cultural traditions. For
example, the government, in its cautious expansion of the tourist
sector, encourages visits by upscale, environmentally conscientious
tourists. Complicated controls and uncertain policies in areas such
as industrial licensing, trade, labor, and finance continue to
hamper foreign investment. Hydropower exports to India have boosted
Bhutan's overall growth. New hydropower projects will be the driving
force behind Bhutan's ability to create employment and sustain
growth in the coming years.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$3.526 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170
$3.301 billion (2009 est.)

$3.123 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.397 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


6.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26
5.7% (2009 est.)

2.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$5,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144
$4,800 (2009 est.)

$4,600 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 17.6%

industry: 45%

services: 37.4% (2006)



Labor force:


299,900
country comparison to the world: 164
note: major shortage of skilled labor (2008)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 63%

industry: 6%

services: 31% (2004 est.)



Unemployment rate:


4% (2009)
country comparison to the world: 36
2.5% (2004)



Population below poverty line:


23.2% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.3%

highest 10%: 37.6% (2003)



Public debt:


57.8% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 40
81.4% of GDP (2004)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4.3% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127
4.9% (2007 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA%



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$335 million (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 164
$381.1 million (31 December 2007)



Stock of broad money:


$NA (31 December 2009)

$647.6 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$NA (31 December 2008)

$169.9 million (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains; dairy products, eggs



Industries:


cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic beverages,
calcium carbide, tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


1.48 billion kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


Electricity - consumption:


184 million kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Electricity - exports:


1.296 billion kWh (2009 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2009 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


Oil - imports:


1,250 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Current account balance:


$164 million (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55
$116 million (2007 est.)



Exports:


$513 million (2008)
country comparison to the world: 166
$350 million (2006)



Exports - commodities:


electricity (to India), ferrosilicon, cement, calcium carbide,
copper wire, manganese, vegetable oil



Exports - partners:


India 86.3%, Bangladesh 8.1%, Italy 1.5% (2008)



Imports:


$533 million (2008)
country comparison to the world: 187
$320 million (2006)



Imports - commodities:


fuel and lubricants, passenger cars, machinery and parts, fabrics,
rice (2008)



Imports - partners:


India 63%, Japan 12.3%, China 5.1% (2008)



Debt - external:


$836 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 152
$713.3 million (2006)



Exchange rates:


ngultrum (BTN) per US dollar - 46.6 (2009), 41.487 (2007), 45.279
(2006), 44.101 (2005), 45.317 (2004)

note: the ngultrum is pegged to the Indian rupee







Communications ::Bhutan




Telephones - main lines in use:


26,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 182


Telephones - mobile cellular:


327,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 169


Telephone system:


general assessment: urban towns and district headquarters have
telecommunications services

domestic: low teledensity; domestic service is poor especially in
rural areas; mobile-cellular service available since 2003

international: country code - 975; international telephone and
telegraph service via landline and microwave relay through India;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-owned TV station established in 1999; cable TV service offers
dozens of Indian and other international channels; first radio
station, privately launched in 1973, is now state-owned; 1 private
radio station began operations in 2006 (2007)



Internet country code:


.bt



Internet hosts:


9,147 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 125


Internet users:


50,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 173






Transportation ::Bhutan




Airports:


2 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 196


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 8,050 km
country comparison to the world: 141
paved: 4,991 km

unpaved: 3,059 km (2003)







Military ::Bhutan




Military branches:


Royal Bhutan Army (includes Royal Bodyguard and Royal Bhutan Police)
(2009)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 198,553

females age 16-49: 176,226 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 153,985

females age 16-49: 140,437 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 7,432

female: 7,153 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 135






Transnational Issues ::Bhutan




Disputes - international:


Bhutan cooperates with India to expel Indian Nagaland separatists;
lacking any treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China
continue negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to
resolve territorial disputes arising from substantial cartographic
discrepancies, the largest of which lie in Bhutan's northwest and
along the Chumbi salient









page last updated on January 13, 2011

======================================================================




@Bolivia  (South America)

Introduction ::Bolivia




Background:


Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR, broke away
from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history has
consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups.
Democratic civilian rule was established in 1982, but leaders have
faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty, social unrest, and
illegal drug production. In December 2005, Bolivians elected
Movement Toward Socialism leader Evo MORALES president - by the
widest margin of any leader since the restoration of civilian rule
in 1982 - after he ran on a promise to change the country's
traditional political class and empower the nation's poor,
indigenous majority. However, since taking office, his controversial
strategies have exacerbated racial and economic tensions between the
Amerindian populations of the Andean west and the non-indigenous
communities of the eastern lowlands. In December 2009, President
MORALES easily won reelection, and his party took control of the
legislative branch of the government, which will allow him to
continue his process of change.







Geography ::Bolivia




Location:


Central South America, southwest of Brazil



Geographic coordinates:


17 00 S, 65 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 1,098,581 sq km
country comparison to the world: 28
land: 1,083,301 sq km

water: 15,280 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than three times the size of Montana



Land boundaries:


total: 6,940 km

border countries: Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,423 km, Chile 860 km,
Paraguay 750 km, Peru 1,075 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and semiarid



Terrain:


rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano), hills,
lowland plains of the Amazon Basin



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Rio Paraguay 90 m

highest point: Nevado Sajama 6,542 m



Natural resources:


tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten, antimony, silver, iron,
lead, gold, timber, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 2.78%

permanent crops: 0.19%

other: 97.03% (2005)



Irrigated land:


1,320 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


622.5 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 1.44 cu km/yr (13%/7%/81%)

per capita: 157 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


flooding in the northeast (March-April)

volcanism: Bolivia experiences volcanic activity in Andes Mountains
on the border with Chile; historically active volcanoes in this
region are Irruputuncu (elev. 5,163 m, 16,939 ft), which last
erupted in 1995 and Olca-Paruma



Environment - current issues:


the clearing of land for agricultural purposes and the international
demand for tropical timber are contributing to deforestation; soil
erosion from overgrazing and poor cultivation methods (including
slash-and-burn agriculture); desertification; loss of biodiversity;
industrial pollution of water supplies used for drinking and
irrigation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
Conservation



Geography - note:


landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest
navigable lake (elevation 3,805 m), with Peru







People ::Bolivia




Population:


9,947,418 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Age structure:


0-14 years: 35.5% (male 1,767,310/female 1,701,744)

15-64 years: 60% (male 2,877,605/female 2,992,043)

65 years and over: 4.5% (male 193,196/female 243,348) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 22.2 years

male: 21.5 years

female: 22.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.72% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Birth rate:


25.16 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Death rate:


6.95 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 133


Net migration rate:


-1.01 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 156


Urbanization:


urban population: 66% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 43.41 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 63
male: 47.26 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 39.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 67.23 years
country comparison to the world: 155
male: 64.52 years

female: 70.07 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


3.07 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


8,100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Bolivian(s)

adjective: Bolivian



Ethnic groups:


Quechua 30%, mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian ancestry) 30%,
Aymara 25%, white 15%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant (Evangelical Methodist) 5%



Languages:


Spanish 60.7% (official), Quechua 21.2% (official), Aymara 14.6%
(official), foreign languages 2.4%, other 1.2% (2001 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 86.7%

male: 93.1%

female: 80.7% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


6.3% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 31






Government ::Bolivia




Country name:


conventional long form: Plurinational State of Bolivia

conventional short form: Bolivia

local long form: Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia

local short form: Bolivia



Government type:


republic; note - the new constitution defines Bolivia as a "Social
Unitarian State"



Capital:


name: La Paz (administrative capital)

geographic coordinates: 16 30 S, 68 09 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

note: Sucre (constitutional capital)



Administrative divisions:


9 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Beni,
Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz, Oruro, Pando, Potosi, Santa Cruz,
Tarija



Independence:


6 August 1825 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 6 August (1825)



Constitution:


7 February 2009



Legal system:


based on Spanish law and Napoleonic Code; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; the 2009 Constitution incorporates
indigenous community justice into Bolivia's judicial system



Suffrage:


18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21 years of
age, universal and compulsory (single)



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22 January
2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January 2006);
note - the president is both chief of state and head of government

head of government: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22
January 2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January
2006)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a five-year term and are eligible for a single
re-election; election last held on 6 December 2009 (next to be held
in 2014)

election results: Juan Evo MORALES Ayma reelected president; percent
of vote - Juan Evo MORALES Ayma 64%; Manfred REYES VILLA 26%; Samuel
DORIA MEDINA Arana 6%; Rene JOAQUINO 2%; other 2%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Plurinational Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa
Plurinacional consists of Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores
(36 seats; members are elected by proportional representation from
party lists to serve five-year terms) and Chamber of Deputies or
Camara de Diputados (130 seats total; 70 uninominal deputies
directly elected from a single district, 7 "special" indigenous
deputies directly elected from non-contiguous indigenous districts,
and 53 plurinominal deputies elected by proportional representation
from party lists; all deputies serve five-year terms)

elections: Chamber of Senators and Chamber of Deputies - last held
on 6 December 2009 (next to be held in 2014)

election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - MAS 26, PPB-CN 10; Chamber of Deputies -
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - MAS 89, PPB-CN 36,
UN 3, AS 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges elected by popular vote from
list of candidates pre-selected by Assembly for six-year terms);
District Courts (one in each department); Plurinational
Constitutional Court (five primary or titulares and five alternate
or suplente magistrates elected by popular vote from list of
candidates pre-selected by Assembly for six-year terms; to rule on
constitutional issues); Plurinational Electoral Organ (seven members
elected by the Assembly and the president; one member must be of
indigenous origin to six-year terms); Agro-Environmental Court
(judges elected by popular vote from list of candidates pre-selected
by Assembly for six-year terms; to run on agro-environmental
issues); provincial and local courts (to try minor cases)



Political parties and leaders:


Bolivia-National Convergence or PPB-CN [Manfred REYES VILLA];
Fearless Movement or MSM [Juan DE GRANADO Cosio]; Movement Toward
Socialism or MAS [Juan Evo MORALES Ayma]; National Unity or UN
[Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana]; People or Gente [Roman LOAYZA]; Social
Alliance or AS [Rene JOAQUINO]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Bolivian Workers Central or COR; Federation of Neighborhood Councils
of El Alto or FEJUVE; Landless Movement or MST; National Coordinator
for Change or CONALCAM; Sole Confederation of Campesino Workers of
Bolivia or CSUTCB

other: Cocalero groups; indigenous organizations (including
Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Eastern Bolivia or CIDOB and
National Council of Ayullus and Markas of Quollasuyu or CONAMAQ);
labor unions (including the Central Bolivian Workers' Union or COB
and Cooperative Miners Federation or FENCOMIN)



International organization participation:


CAN, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA,
MINUSTAH, MONUSCO, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Erika
Angela DUENAS Loayza

chancery: 3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 483-4410

FAX: [1] (202) 328-3712

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco

note: as of September 2008, the US has expelled the Bolivian
ambassador to the US



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires John CREAMER

embassy: Avenida Arce 2780, Casilla 425, La Paz

mailing address: P. O. Box 425, La Paz; APO AA 34032

telephone: [591] (2) 216-8000

FAX: [591] (2) 216-8111

note: in September 2008, the Bolivian Government expelled the US
Ambassador to Bolivia, and the countries have yet to reinstate
ambassadors



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with
the coat of arms centered on the yellow band; red stands for bravery
and the blood of national heroes, yellow for the nation's mineral
resources, and green for the fertility of the land

note: similar to the flag of Ghana, which has a large black
five-pointed star centered in the yellow band; in 2009, a
presidential decree made it mandatory for a so-called wiphala - a
square, multi-colored flag representing the country's indigenous
peoples - to be used alongside the traditional flag



National anthem:


name: "Cancion Patriotica" (Patriotic Song)

lyrics/music: Jose Ignacio de SANJINES/Leopoldo Benedetto VINCENTI

note: adopted 1852







Economy ::Bolivia




Economy - overview:


Bolivia is one of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin
America. Following a disastrous economic crisis during the early
1980s, reforms spurred private investment, stimulated economic
growth, and cut poverty rates in the 1990s. The period 2003-05 was
characterized by political instability, racial tensions, and violent
protests against plans - subsequently abandoned - to export
Bolivia's newly discovered natural gas reserves to large northern
hemisphere markets. In 2005, the government passed a controversial
hydrocarbons law that imposed significantly higher royalties and
required foreign firms then operating under risk-sharing contracts
to surrender all production to the state energy company in exchange
for a predetermined service fee. After higher prices for mining and
hydrocarbons exports produced a fiscal surplus in 2008, the global
recession in 2009 slowed growth. A decline in commodity prices that
began in late 2008, a lack of foreign investment in the mining and
hydrocarbon sectors, a poor infrastructure, and the suspension of
trade benefits with the United States will pose challenges for the
Bolivian economy.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$47.98 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
$46.22 billion (2009 est.)

$44.7 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$19.18 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87
3.4% (2009 est.)

6.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$4,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150
$4,700 (2009 est.)

$4,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 11%

industry: 38%

services: 51% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


4.614 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 40%

industry: 17%

services: 43% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


8.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94
7.7% (2009 est.)

note: data are for urban areas; widespread underemployment



Population below poverty line:


30.3% of population living on less than $2/day (2009 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 0.5%

highest 10%: 44.1% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


58.2 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 9
44.7 (1999)



Investment (gross fixed):


17.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Public debt:


40.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
40.3% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56
3.3% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


3% (31 October 2010)
country comparison to the world: 26
13% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10% (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70
12.36% (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.374 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 97
$3.524 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$12.16 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 95
$11.04 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$8.314 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99
$7.233 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$2.792 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 90
$2.672 billion (31 December 2008)

$2.263 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice, potatoes;
timber



Industries:


mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverages, tobacco,
handicrafts, clothing



Industrial production growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Electricity - production:


5.495 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111


Electricity - consumption:


4.665 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


47,050 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Oil - consumption:


59,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Oil - exports:


10,950 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


Oil - imports:


6,172 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Oil - proved reserves:


465 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Natural gas - production:


14.2 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Natural gas - consumption:


2.41 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Natural gas - exports:


11.79 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Natural gas - proved reserves:


750.4 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Current account balance:


$878 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$800.7 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$6.058 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103
$4.848 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


natural gas, soybeans and soy products, crude petroleum, zinc ore,
tin



Exports - partners:


Brazil 41.38%, US 13.87%, Japan 5.62%, Colombia 5.32%, South Korea
4.7%, Peru 4.16% (2009)



Imports:


$5.006 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
$4.095 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


petroleum products, plastics, paper, aircraft and aircraft parts,
prepared foods, automobiles, insecticides, soybeans



Imports - partners:


Brazil 27.12%, Argentina 15.69%, US 12.77%, Chile 9.11%, Peru 6.85%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$8.739 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57
$8.581 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$6.13 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99
$5.653 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA (31 December 2009)

$5.998 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA (31 December 2010)

$63.8 million (31 December 2008)



Exchange rates:


bolivianos (BOB) per US dollar - 7.0699 (2010), 7.07 (2009), 7.253
(2008), 7.8616 (2007), 8.0159 (2006)







Communications ::Bolivia




Telephones - main lines in use:


810,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 87


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7.148 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 81


Telephone system:


general assessment: privatization begun in 1995; primary trunk
system, which is being expanded, employs digital microwave radio
relay; some areas are served by fiber-optic cable; overall
reliability has steadily improved

domestic: most telephones are concentrated in La Paz and other
cities; mobile-cellular telephone use expanding rapidly and, in
2009, teledensity reached 75 per 100 persons; fixed-line teledensity
is low at less than 10 per 100 persons

international: country code - 591; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


large number of radio and television broadcasting stations with
private media outlets dominating; state-owned and private radio and
television stations generally operating freely, although both
pro-government and anti-government groups have attacked media
outlets in response to their reporting (2007)



Internet country code:


.bo



Internet hosts:


125,462 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 74


Internet users:


1.103 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 95






Transportation ::Bolivia




Airports:


881 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 8


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 16

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 4

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 5 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 865

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 4

1,524 to 2,437 m: 58

914 to 1,523 m: 187

under 914 m: 615 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 5,192 km; liquid petroleum gas 51 km; oil 2,488 km; refined
products 1,590 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 3,504 km
country comparison to the world: 50
narrow gauge: 3,504 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 62,479 km
country comparison to the world: 73
paved: 3,749 km

unpaved: 58,730 km (2004)



Waterways:


10,000 km (commercially navigable almost exclusively in the northern
and eastern parts of the country) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 13


Merchant marine:


total: 22
country comparison to the world: 98
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 11, carrier 1, passenger/cargo 1,
petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 1

foreign-owned: 7 (Bahamas 1, Ecuador 1, Iran 1, Syria 4) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Puerto Aguirre (inland port on the Paraguay/Parana waterway at the
Bolivia/Brazil border); Bolivia has free port privileges in maritime
ports in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Paraguay







Military ::Bolivia




Military branches:


Bolivian Armed Forces: Bolivian Army (Ejercito Boliviano, EB),
Bolivian Navy (Fuerza Naval Boliviana, FNB; includes marines),
Bolivian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Boliviana, FAB) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-49 years of age for 12-month compulsory military service; when
annual number of volunteers falls short of goal, compulsory
recruitment is effected, including conscription of boys as young as
14; 15-19 years of age for voluntary premilitary service, provides
exemption from further military service (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,415,712

females age 16-49: 2,482,359 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,714,438

females age 16-49: 1,959,763 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 108,336

female: 104,934 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 115






Transnational Issues ::Bolivia




Disputes - international:


Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reactivated claim to restore the
Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile offers instead
unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile for
Bolivian natural gas and other commodities; an accord placed the
long-disputed Isla Suarez/Ilha de Guajara-Mirim, a fluvial island on
the Rio Mamore, under Bolivian administration in 1958, but
sovereignty remains in dispute



Illicit drugs:


world's third-largest cultivator of coca (after Colombia and Peru)
with an estimated 29,500 hectares under cultivation in 2007,
increased slightly when compared to 2006; third largest producer of
cocaine, estimated at 120 metric tons potential pure cocaine in
2007; transit country for Peruvian and Colombian cocaine destined
for Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Europe; cultivation
generally increasing since 2000, despite eradication and alternative
crop programs; weak border controls; some money-laundering activity
related to narcotics trade; major cocaine consumption (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Bosnia and Herzegovina  (Europe)

Introduction ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Background:


Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of sovereignty in October 1991
was followed by a declaration of independence from the former
Yugoslavia on 3 March 1992 after a referendum boycotted by ethnic
Serbs. The Bosnian Serbs - supported by neighboring Serbia and
Montenegro - responded with armed resistance aimed at partitioning
the republic along ethnic lines and joining Serb-held areas to form
a "Greater Serbia." In March 1994, Bosniaks and Croats reduced the
number of warring factions from three to two by signing an agreement
creating a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
On 21 November 1995, in Dayton, Ohio, the warring parties initialed
a peace agreement that brought to a halt three years of interethnic
civil strife (the final agreement was signed in Paris on 14 December
1995). The Dayton Peace Accords retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's
international boundaries and created a multi-ethnic and democratic
government charged with conducting foreign, diplomatic, and fiscal
policy. Also recognized was a second tier of government composed of
two entities roughly equal in size: the Bosniak/Croat Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska
(RS). The Federation and RS governments were charged with overseeing
most government functions. The Dayton Accords also established the
Office of the High Representative (OHR) to oversee the
implementation of the civilian aspects of the agreement. The Peace
Implementation Council (PIC) at its conference in Bonn in 1997 also
gave the High Representative the authority to impose legislation and
remove officials, the so-called "Bonn Powers." In 1995-96, a
NATO-led international peacekeeping force (IFOR) of 60,000 troops
served in Bosnia to implement and monitor the military aspects of
the agreement. IFOR was succeeded by a smaller, NATO-led
Stabilization Force (SFOR) whose mission was to deter renewed
hostilities. European Union peacekeeping troops (EUFOR) replaced
SFOR in December 2004; their mission is to maintain peace and
stability throughout the country. EUFOR's mission changed from
peacekeeping to civil policing in October 2007, with its presence
reduced from nearly 7,000 to less than 2,500 troops. Troop strength
at the end of 2009 stood at roughly 2,000. In January 2010, Bosnia
and Herzegovina assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security
Council for the 2010-11 term.







Geography ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Location:


Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Croatia



Geographic coordinates:


44 00 N, 18 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 51,197 sq km
country comparison to the world: 128
land: 51,187 sq km

water: 10 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than West Virginia



Land boundaries:


total: 1,538 km

border countries: Croatia 932 km, Montenegro 249 km, Serbia 357 km



Coastline:


20 km



Maritime claims:


no data available



Climate:


hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have short,
cool summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters along
coast



Terrain:


mountains and valleys



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point: Maglic 2,386 m



Natural resources:


coal, iron ore, bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, cobalt,
manganese, nickel, clay, gypsum, salt, sand, timber, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 19.61%

permanent crops: 1.89%

other: 78.5% (2005)



Irrigated land:


30 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


37.5 cu km (2003)



Natural hazards:


destructive earthquakes



Environment - current issues:


air pollution from metallurgical plants; sites for disposing of
urban waste are limited; water shortages and destruction of
infrastructure because of the 1992-95 civil strife; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


within Bosnia and Herzegovina's recognized borders, the country is
divided into a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation (about 51% of the
territory) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska or RS (about
49% of the territory); the region called Herzegovina is contiguous
to Croatia and Montenegro, and traditionally has been settled by an
ethnic Croat majority in the west and an ethnic Serb majority in the
east







People ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Population:


4,621,598 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120


Age structure:


0-14 years: 14.5% (male 344,760/female 323,303)

15-64 years: 70.7% (male 1,645,274/female 1,617,136)

65 years and over: 14.8% (male 279,781/female 403,160) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 40.3 years

male: 39.1 years

female: 41.5 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.016% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Birth rate:


8.87 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 213


Death rate:


8.71 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Urbanization:


urban population: 47% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.074 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female

total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 8.88 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 156
male: 10.18 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 7.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 78.66 years
country comparison to the world: 44
male: 75.09 years

female: 82.49 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.26 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 214


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


900 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


100 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150


Nationality:


noun: Bosnian(s), Herzegovinian(s)

adjective: Bosnian, Herzegovinian



Ethnic groups:


Bosniak 48%, Serb 37.1%, Croat 14.3%, other 0.6% (2000)

note: Bosniak has replaced Muslim as an ethnic term in part to avoid
confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam



Religions:


Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Roman Catholic 15%, other 14%



Languages:


Bosnian (official), Croatian (official), Serbian



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 96.7%

male: 99%

female: 94.4% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


NA







Government ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Bosnia and Herzegovina

local long form: none

local short form: Bosna i Hercegovina

former: People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina



Government type:


emerging federal democratic republic



Capital:


name: Sarajevo

geographic coordinates: 43 52 N, 18 25 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


2 first-order administrative divisions and 1 internationally
supervised district* - Brcko district (Brcko Distrikt)*, the
Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federacija Bosna
i Hercegovina) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska; note -
Brcko district is in northeastern Bosnia and is a self-governing
administrative unit under the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and formally held in condominium between the two entities; the
District remains under international supervision



Independence:


1 March 1992 (from Yugoslavia; referendum for independence completed
on 1 March 1992; independence declared on 3 March 1992)



National holiday:


National Day, 25 November (1943)



Constitution:


the Dayton Peace Accords, signed on 14 December 1995 in Paris,
included a constitution; note - each of the entities also has its
own constitution



Legal system:


based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age, 16 if employed; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Chairman of the Presidency Nebojsa RADMANOVIC
(chairman of the presidency since 10 November 2010; presidency
member since 1 October 2006 - Serb); other members of the
three-member presidency rotate every eight months: Bakir IZETBEGOVIC
(presidency member since 3 October 2010 - Bosniak); Zeljko KOMSIC
(presidency member since 1 October 2006 - Croat)

head of government: Chairman of the Council of Ministers Nikola
SPIRIC (since 11 January 2007)

cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the council chairman;
approved by the state-level House of Representatives
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the three members of the presidency (one Bosniak, one
Croat, one Serb) elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term, but then ineligible for four years);
the chairmanship rotates every eight months and resumes where it
left off following each general election; election last held on 3
October 2010 (next to be held in October 2014); the chairman of the
Council of Ministers appointed by the presidency and confirmed by
the state-level House of Representatives

election results: percent of vote - Nebojsa RADMANOVIC with 48.9% of
the votes for the Serb seat; Zeljko KOMSIC with 60.6% of the votes
for the Croat seat; Bakir IZETBEGOVIC with 34.9% of the votes for
the Bosniak seat

note: President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Borjana
KRISTO (since 21 February 2007); Vice Presidents Spomenka MICIC
(since 21 February 2007) and Mirsad KEBO (since 21 February 2007);
President of the Republika Srpska: Milorad DODIK (since 3 October
2010); took office 15 November 2010



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliamentary Assembly or Skupstina consists of the House
of Peoples or Dom Naroda (15 seats, 5 Bosniak, 5 Croat, 5 Serb;
members elected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Peoples
and the Republika Srpska's National Assembly to serve four-year
terms); and the state-level House of Representatives or
Predstavnicki Dom (42 seats, 28 seats allocated for the Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 14 seats for the Republika Srpska;
members elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional
representation to serve four-year terms); note - Bosnia's election
law specifies four-year terms for the state and first-order
administrative division entity legislatures

elections: House of Peoples - last constituted in February 2007
(next to be constituted in 2011); state-level House of
Representatives - elections last held on 3 October 2010 (next to be
held in October 2014)

election results: House of Peoples - percent of vote by
party/coalition - NA; seats by party/coalition - NA; state-level
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party/coalition - NA;
seats by party/coalition - SDP BiH 8, SDA 7, SNSD 7, SDS 5, SBBBiH
4, HDZ-BiH 3, SBiH 2, HDZ-1990/HSP 2, other 4

note: the Bosniak/Croat Federation has a bicameral legislature that
consists of a House of Peoples (58 seats - 17 Bosniak, 17 Croat, 17
Serb, 7 other); last constituted February 2007; and a House of
Representatives (98 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms); elections last held on 3 October 2010 (next to be
held in October 2014); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party/coalition - SDP 28, SDA 23, SBBBiH 13, HDZ-BiH 12,
HDZ-1990/HSP 5, other 17; the Republika Srpska has a National
Assembly (83 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms); elections last held on 3 October 2010 (next to be
held in October 2014); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party/coalition - SNSD 37, SDS 18, PDP 7, DNS 6, SP 4, DP 3, SDP 3,
SDA 2, NDS 2 SRS-RS 1; as a result of the 2002 constitutional reform
process, a 28-member Republika Srpska Council of Peoples (COP) was
established in the Republika Srpska National Assembly including 8
Croats, 8 Bosniaks, 8 Serbs, and 4 members of the smaller communities



Judicial branch:


BiH Constitutional Court (consists of nine members: four members are
selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Representatives,
two members by the Republika Srpska's National Assembly, and three
non-Bosnian members by the president of the European Court of Human
Rights); BiH State Court (consists of 44 national judges and seven
international judges and has three divisions - Administrative,
Appellate and Criminal - having jurisdiction over cases related to
state-level law and cases initiated in the entities that question
BiH's sovereignty, political independence, or national security or
with economic crimes that have serious repercussions to BiH's
economy, beyond that of an entity or Brcko District); a War Crimes
Chamber opened in March 2005

note: the entities each have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a
number of lower courts; there are 10 cantonal courts in the
Federation, plus a number of municipal courts; the Republika Srpska
has five district courts and a number of municipal courts



Political parties and leaders:


Alliance for a Better Future of BiH or SBB-BiH [ Fahrudin RADONCIC];
Alliance of Independent Social Democrats or SNSD [Milorad DODIK];
Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes AJANOVIC]; Bosnian Patriotic Party or
BPS [Sefer HALILOVIC]; Civic Democratic Party or GDS [Ibrahim
SPAHIC]; Croat Party of Rights or HSP [Zvonko JURISIC]; Croat
Peasants' Party-New Croat Initiative or HSS-NHI [Ante COLAK];
Croatian Christian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina or
HKDU [Ivan MUSA]; Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and
Herzegovina or HDZ-BiH [Dragan COVIC]; Croatian Democratic Union
1990 or HDZ-1990 [Bozo LJUBIC]; Croatian Peoples Union [Milenko
BRKIC]; Democratic National Union or DNZ [Rifat DOLIC]; Democratic
Party or DP [Dragan CAVIC]; Democratic Peoples' Alliance or DNS
[Marko PAVIC]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; Nasa
Stranka or NS [NA; leadership elections late 2010/early 2011]; New
Socialist Party or NSP [Zdravko KRSMANOVIC]; Party for Bosnia and
Herzegovina or SBiH [Haris SILAJDZIC]; Party of Democratic Action or
SDA [Sulejman TIHIC]; Party of Democratic Progress or PDP [Mladen
IVANIC]; Peoples' Party of Work for Progress or NSRzB [Mladen
IVANKOVIC-LIJANOVIC]; Serb Democratic Party or SDS [Mladen BOSIC];
Serb Radical Party of the Republika Srpska or SRS-RS [Milanko
MIHAJLICA]; Serb Radical Party-Dr. Vojislav Seselj or SRS-VS [Mirko
BLAGOJEVIC]; Social Democratic Party of BiH or SDP BiH [Zlatko
LAGUMDZIJA]; Social Democratic Union or SDU [Nermin PECANAC];
Socialist Party of Republika Srpska or SPRS [Petar DJOKIC]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: war veterans; displaced persons associations; family
associations of missing persons; private media



International organization participation:


BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NAM (observer), OAS
(observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI, UN, UN Security
Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Mitar KUJUNDZIC

chancery: 2109 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone: [1] (202) 337-1500

FAX: [1] (202) 337-1502

consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Patrick S. MOON

embassy: Alipasina 43, 71000 Sarajevo

mailing address: use embassy street address

telephone: [387] (33) 445-700

FAX: [387] (33) 659-722

branch office(s): Banja Luka, Mostar



Flag description:


a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly side with a yellow
isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top of the flag; the
remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven full five-pointed
white stars and two half stars top and bottom along the hypotenuse
of the triangle; the triangle approximates the shape of the country
and its three points stand for the constituent peoples - Bosniaks,
Croats, and Serbs; the stars represent Europe and are meant to be
continuous (thus the half stars at top and bottom); the colors
(white, blue, and yellow) are often associated with neutrality and
peace, and traditionally are linked with Bosnia



National anthem:


name: "Drzavna himna Bosne i Hercegovine" (The National Anthem of
Bosnia and Herzegovina)

lyrics/music: Dusan SESTIC and Benjamin ISOVIC/Dusan SESTIC

note: music adopted 1999; lyrics adopted 2009







Economy ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Economy - overview:


The interethnic warfare in Bosnia and Herzegovina caused production
to plummet by 80% from 1992 to 1995 and unemployment to soar. With
an uneasy peace in place, output recovered in 1996-99 at high
percentage rates from a low base; but output growth slowed in
2000-02. Part of the lag in output was made up in 2003-08 when GDP
growth exceeded 5% per year. However, the country experienced
negative GDP growth of almost 3% in 2009 due in large part to a
reduction in exports caused by the global economic crisis. One of
Bosnia's main economic challenges in 2010 has been to reduce
spending on public sector wages and social benefits to meet the
IMF's criteria for obtaining funding for budget shortfalls. Banking
reform accelerated in 2001 as all the Communist-era payments bureaus
were shut down; foreign banks, primarily from Austria and Italy, now
control most of the banking sector. The konvertibilna marka
(convertible mark or BAM)- the national currency introduced in 1998
- is pegged to the euro, and confidence in the currency and the
banking sector has increased. Bosnia's private sector is growing and
foreign investment is slowly increasing, but government spending, at
roughly 50% of GDP, remains high because of redundant government
offices at the state, entity and municipal level. Privatization of
state enterprises, however, has been slow, particularly in the
Federation where political division between ethnically-based
political parties makes agreement on economic policy more difficult.
A sizeable current account deficit and high unemployment rate remain
the two most serious macroeconomic problems. Successful
implementation of a value-added tax in 2006 provided a predictable
source of revenue for the government and helped rein in gray market
activity. National-level statistics have also improved over time but
a large share of economic activity remains unofficial and
unrecorded. Bosnia and Herzegovina became a full member of the
Central European Free Trade Agreement in September 2007.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$30.56 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
$30.23 billion (2009 est.)

$31.23 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$16.2 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175
-3.2% (2009 est.)

5.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$6,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134
$6,600 (2009 est.)

$6,800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9.8%

industry: 25.9%

services: 64.3% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.863 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 123


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 20.5%

industry: 32.6%

services: 47% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


27.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175
24.1% (2009 est.)

note: official rate



Population below poverty line:


25% (2004 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.8%

highest 10%: 27.4% (2004)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


56.2 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 11


Public debt:


39% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
35% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
-0.4% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


7.93% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130
6.98% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.098 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 99
$4.182 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$9.307 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
$9.236 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$10.09 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94
$10.01 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock



Industries:


steel, coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, manganese, bauxite, vehicle
assembly, textiles, tobacco products, wooden furniture, tank and
aircraft assembly, domestic appliances, oil refining



Industrial production growth rate:


3.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Electricity - production:


14.58 billion kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Electricity - consumption:


11.62 billion kWh (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Electricity - exports:


6.024 billion kWh (2009 est.)



Electricity - imports:


3.04 billion kWh (2009 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Oil - consumption:


30,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Oil - exports:


192 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132


Oil - imports:


25,990 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 102


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Natural gas - consumption:


310 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52


Natural gas - imports:


310 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Current account balance:


-$887 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131
-$1.283 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$4.787 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
$4.057 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


metals, clothing, wood products



Exports - partners:


Croatia 19.07%, Slovenia 18.58%, Italy 16.87%, Germany 13.38%,
Austria 10.25% (2009)



Imports:


$9.403 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
$8.788 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


Croatia 22.17%, Germany 14.04%, Slovenia 13.45%, Italy 11.89%,
Austria 6.61%, Hungary 5.74% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$2.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87
$3.245 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$7.996 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
$8.048 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


konvertibilna markas (BAM) per US dollar - 1.5088 (2010), 1.4079
(2009), 1.3083 (2008), 1.4419 (2007), 1.5576 (2006)







Communications ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Telephones - main lines in use:


998,600 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 78


Telephones - mobile cellular:


3.257 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 110


Telephone system:


general assessment: post-war reconstruction of the
telecommunications network, aided by a internationally sponsored
program under EBRD, resulting in sharp increases in the number of
fixed telephone lines available

domestic: fixed-line teledensity roughly 22 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular subscribership has been increasing rapidly and, in
2009, reached 70 telephones per 100 persons

international: country code - 387; no satellite earth stations (2009)



Broadcast media:


3 public TV broadcasters: Radio and TV of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Federation TV (operating 2 networks), and Serb Republic Radio-TV; a
local commercial network of 5 TV stations; 2 private, near-national
TV stations and dozens of small independent TV stations
broadcasting; 3 large public radio broadcasters and a large number
of private radio stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.ba



Internet hosts:


95,234 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 79


Internet users:


1.422 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 85






Transportation ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Airports:


25 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 129


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 7

2,438 to 3,047 m: 4

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 18

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 6

under 914 m: 11 (2010)



Heliports:


5 (2010)



Railways:


total: 1,000 km
country comparison to the world: 89
standard gauge: 1,000 km 1.435-m gauge (590 km electrified) (2008)



Roadways:


total: 21,846 km
country comparison to the world: 107
paved: 11,425 km (4,714 km of interurban roads)

unpaved: 10,421 km (2006)



Waterways:


Sava River (northern border) open to shipping but use limited (2009)



Ports and terminals:


Bosanska Gradiska, Bosanski Brod, Bosanski Samac, and Brcko (all
inland waterway ports on the Sava River), Orasje







Military ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Military branches:


Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (AFBiH): Army of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Air and Air Defense Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(Zrakoplovstvo i Protuzracna Obrana, ZPO) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished in January 2006; 4-month service obligation; mandatory
retirement at age 35 or after 15 years of service (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,194,832

females age 16-49: 1,156,698 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 980,425

females age 16-49: 948,791 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 26,134

female: 24,518 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


4.5% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20






Transnational Issues ::Bosnia and Herzegovina




Disputes - international:


sections along the Drina River remain in dispute between Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Serbia; discussions continue with Croatia on several
small disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access
that hinder final ratification of the 1999 border agreement



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 7,269 (Croatia)

IDPs: 131,600 (Bosnian Croats, Serbs, and Bosniaks displaced in
1992-95 war) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


increasingly a transit point for heroin being trafficked to Western
Europe; minor transit point for marijuana; remains highly vulnerable
to money-laundering activity given a primarily cash-based and
unregulated economy, weak law enforcement, and instances of
corruption









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Botswana  (Africa)

Introduction ::Botswana




Background:


Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland, Botswana adopted
its new name upon independence in 1966. Four decades of
uninterrupted civilian leadership, progressive social policies, and
significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic
economies in Africa. Mineral extraction, principally diamond mining,
dominates economic activity, though tourism is a growing sector due
to the country's conservation practices and extensive nature
preserves. Botswana has one of the world's highest known rates of
HIV/AIDS infection, but also one of Africa's most progressive and
comprehensive programs for dealing with the disease.







Geography ::Botswana




Location:


Southern Africa, north of South Africa



Geographic coordinates:


22 00 S, 24 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 581,730 sq km
country comparison to the world: 47
land: 566,730 sq km

water: 15,000 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 4,013 km

border countries: Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe
813 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


semiarid; warm winters and hot summers



Terrain:


predominantly flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari Desert in
southwest



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: junction of the Limpopo and Shashe Rivers 513 m

highest point: Tsodilo Hills 1,489 m



Natural resources:


diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal, iron ore,
silver



Land use:


arable land: 0.65%

permanent crops: 0.01%

other: 99.34% (2005)



Irrigated land:


10 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


14.7 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.19 cu km/yr (41%/18%/41%)

per capita: 107 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


periodic droughts; seasonal August winds blow from the west,
carrying sand and dust across the country, which can obscure
visibility



Environment - current issues:


overgrazing; desertification; limited fresh water resources



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked; population concentrated in eastern part of the country







People ::Botswana




Population:


2,029,307
country comparison to the world: 144
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 34.8% (male 352,399/female 340,058)

15-64 years: 61.4% (male 613,714/female 608,003)

65 years and over: 3.9% (male 31,155/female 45,547) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 22 years

male: 21.8 years

female: 22.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.843% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Birth rate:


22.54 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Death rate:


9.02 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Net migration rate:


4.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 17
note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2010 est.)



Urbanization:


urban population: 60% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female

total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 11.79 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 143
male: 12.51 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 11.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 60.93 years
country comparison to the world: 183
male: 61.11 years

female: 60.75 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.54 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


23.9% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


300,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


11,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

adjective: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)



Ethnic groups:


Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, other, including
Kgalagadi and white 7%



Religions:


Christian 71.6%, Badimo 6%, other 1.4%, unspecified 0.4%, none 20.6%
(2001 census)



Languages:


Setswana 78.2%, Kalanga 7.9%, Sekgalagadi 2.8%, English 2.1%
(official), other 8.6%, unspecified 0.4% (2001 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 81.2%

male: 80.4%

female: 81.8% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 12 years

female: 12 years (2006)



Education expenditures:


8.1% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 10






Government ::Botswana




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Botswana

conventional short form: Botswana

local long form: Republic of Botswana

local short form: Botswana

former: Bechuanaland



Government type:


parliamentary republic



Capital:


name: Gaborone

geographic coordinates: 24 45 S, 25 55 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


9 districts and 5 town councils*; Central, Francistown*, Gaborone*,
Ghanzi, Jwaneng*, Kgalagadi, Kgatleng, Kweneng, Lobatse*, Northeast,
Northwest, Selebi-Pikwe*, Southeast, Southern



Independence:


30 September 1966 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day (Botswana Day), 30 September (1966)



Constitution:


March 1965; effective 30 September 1966



Legal system:


based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law; judicial review
limited to matters of interpretation; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1 April
2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1 April
2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president indirectly elected for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 20 October 2009
(next to be held in October 2014); vice president appointed by the
president

election results: Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA elected president; percent
of National Assembly vote - NA%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Chiefs (a largely
advisory 15-member body with 8 ex-officio members consisting of the
chiefs of the principal tribes, and 7 non-permanent members serving
5-year terms, consisting of 4 elected subchiefs and 3 members
selected by the other 12 members) and the National Assembly (63
seats; 57 members directly elected by popular vote, 4 appointed by
the majority party, and 2, the President and Attorney General, serve
as ex-officio members; members serve five-year terms)

elections: National Assembly elections last held on 16 October 2009
(next to be held in 2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - BDP 53.3%, BNF 21.9%,
BCP 19.2%, 2.3%, other 4.3%; seats by party - BDP 45, BNF 6, BCP 4,
BAM 1, other 1



Judicial branch:


High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts (one in each
district)



Political parties and leaders:


Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO];
Botswana Congress Party or BCP [Gilson SALESHANDO]; Botswana
Democratic Party or BDP [Daniel KWELAGOBE]; Botswana National Front
or BNF [Otswoletse MOUPO]; Botswana Peoples Party or BPP [Bernard
BALIKANI]; MELS Movement of Botswana or MELS [Themba JOINA]; New
Democratic Front or NDF [Dick BAYFORD]

note: a number of minor parties joined forces in 1999 to form the
BAM but did not capture any parliamentary seats - includes the
United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]; the Independence
Freedom Party or IFP [Motsamai MPHO]; the Botswana Progressive Union
[D. K. KWELE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


First People of the Kalahari (Bushman organization); Pitso Ya Ba
Tswana; Society for the Promotion of Ikalanga Language (Kalanga
elites)

other: diamond mining companies



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Lapologang Caesar LEKOA

chancery: 1531-1533 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone: [1] (202) 244-4990

FAX: [1] (202) 244-4164



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen J. NOLAN

embassy: Embassy Enclave (off Khama Crescent), Gaborone

mailing address: Embassy Enclave, P. O. Box 90, Gaborone

telephone: [267] 395-3982

FAX: [267] 395-6947



Flag description:


light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center;
the blue symbolizes water in the form of rain, while the black and
white bands represent racial harmony



National anthem:


name: "Fatshe leno la rona" (Our Land)

lyrics/music: Kgalemang Tumedisco MOTSETE

note: adopted 1966







Economy ::Botswana




Economy - overview:


Botswana has maintained one of the world's highest economic growth
rates since independence in 1966, though growth fell below 5% in
2007-08, and turned sharply negative in 2009, with industry falling
nearly 30%. Through fiscal discipline and sound management, Botswana
transformed itself from one of the poorest countries in the world to
a middle-income country with a per capita GDP of $13,100 in 2010.
Two major investment services rank Botswana as the best credit risk
in Africa. Diamond mining has fueled much of the expansion and
currently accounts for more than one-third of GDP, 70-80% of export
earnings, and about half of the government's revenues. Botswana's
heavy reliance on a single luxury export was a critical factor in
the sharp economic contraction of 2009. Tourism, financial services,
subsistence farming, and cattle raising are other key sectors.
Although unemployment was 7.5% in 2007 according to official
reports, unofficial estimates place it closer to 40%. The prevalence
of HIV/AIDS is second highest in the world and threatens Botswana's
impressive economic gains. An expected leveling off in diamond
mining production within the next two decades overshadows long-term
prospects.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$26.56 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
$25.76 billion (2009 est.)

$27.23 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$12.5 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118
-5.4% (2009 est.)

2.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$13,100 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88
$12,900 (2009 est.)

$13,900 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.3%

industry: 45.8%

services: 51.9% (2009 est.)



Labor force:


685,300 formal sector employees (2007)
country comparison to the world: 151


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%



Unemployment rate:


7.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Population below poverty line:


30.3% (2003)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


63 (1993)
country comparison to the world: 4


Investment (gross fixed):


28.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 24


Public debt:


22.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106
18.6% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


7.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179
8.1% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


10% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 19
15% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


13.76% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35
16.54% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.146 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 136
$939.1 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$6.679 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113
$5.357 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.361 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139
$2.06 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$3.991 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 86
$3.556 billion (31 December 2008)

$5.887 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


livestock, sorghum, maize, millet, beans, sunflowers, groundnuts



Industries:


diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal, iron ore,
silver; livestock processing; textiles



Industrial production growth rate:


6.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Electricity - production:


1.052 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143


Electricity - consumption:


2.648 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


2.181 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


Oil - consumption:


15,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207


Oil - imports:


15,180 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Current account balance:


-$552 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118
-$762 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$4.419 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
$3.385 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


diamonds, copper, nickel, soda ash, meat, textiles



Imports:


$4.518 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 122
$4.243 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, machinery, electrical goods, transport equipment,
textiles, fuel and petroleum products, wood and paper products,
metal and metal products



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$7.834 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58
$8.704 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$2.222 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137
$1.681 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


pulas (BWP) per US dollar - 6.7413 (2010), 7.1602 (2009), 6.7907
(2008), 6.2035 (2007), 5.8447 (2006)







Communications ::Botswana




Telephones - main lines in use:


144,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 133


Telephones - mobile cellular:


1.874 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 136


Telephone system:


general assessment: Botswana is participating in regional
development efforts; expanding fully digital system with fiber-optic
cables linking the major population centers in the east as well as a
system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relays links, and
radiotelephone communication stations

domestic: fixed-line teledensity has declined in recent years and
now stands at roughly 7 telephones per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
subscribership is rapidly approaching a teledensity of 100
telephones per 100 persons

international: country code - 267; international calls are made via
satellite, using international direct dialing; 2 international
exchanges; digital microwave radio relay links to Namibia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Indian Ocean) (2008)



Broadcast media:


2 TV stations - 1 state-owned and 1 privately-owned; privately-owned
satellite TV subscription service is available; 2 state-owned
national radio stations; 3 privately-owned radio stations broadcast
locally (2007)



Internet country code:


.bw



Internet hosts:


2,739 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 148


Internet users:


120,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 153






Transportation ::Botswana




Airports:


78 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 71


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 9

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 6

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 69

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 52

under 914 m: 13 (2010)



Railways:


total: 888 km
country comparison to the world: 97
narrow gauge: 888 km 1.067-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 25,798 km
country comparison to the world: 103
paved: 8,410 km

unpaved: 17,388 km (2005)







Military ::Botswana




Military branches:


Botswana Defense Force (BDF): Ground Forces Command, Air Arm
Command, Logistics Command (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 is the apparent age of voluntary military service; official
minimum age is unknown (2001)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 543,097

females age 16-49: 520,896 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 347,070

females age 16-49: 315,743 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 23,496

female: 22,944 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.3% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 38






Transnational Issues ::Botswana




Disputes - international:


Botswana still struggles to seal its border from thousands of
Zimbabweans who flee economic collapse and political persecution;
Namibia has long supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections
to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the
Zambezi River at Kazungula crossing, thereby de facto recognizing
the short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Bouvet Island  (Antarctica)

Introduction ::Bouvet Island




Background:


This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely covered by
glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered in 1739 by
a French naval officer after whom the island was named. No claim was
made until 1825, when the British flag was raised. In 1928, the UK
waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied the island
the previous year. In 1971, Norway designated Bouvet Island and the
adjacent territorial waters a nature reserve. Since 1977, it has run
an automated meteorological station on the island.







Geography ::Bouvet Island




Location:


island in the South Atlantic Ocean, southwest of the Cape of Good
Hope (South Africa)



Geographic coordinates:


54 26 S, 3 24 E



Map references:


Antarctic Region



Area:


total: 49 sq km
country comparison to the world: 232
land: 49 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


29.6 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 4 nm



Climate:


antarctic



Terrain:


volcanic; coast is mostly inaccessible



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: South Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Olav Peak 935 m



Natural resources:


none



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (93% ice) (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


NA



Environment - current issues:


NA



Geography - note:


covered by glacial ice; declared a nature reserve by Norway







People ::Bouvet Island




Population:


uninhabited







Government ::Bouvet Island




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Bouvet Island



Dependency status:


territory of Norway; administered by the Polar Department of the
Ministry of Justice and Oslo Police



Legal system:


the laws of Norway where applicable apply



Flag description:


the flag of Norway is used







Economy ::Bouvet Island




Economy - overview:


no economic activity; declared a nature reserve







Communications ::Bouvet Island




Internet country code:


.bv



Internet hosts:


6 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 225


Communications - note:


automatic meteorological station







Transportation ::Bouvet Island




Ports and terminals:


none; offshore anchorage only







Military ::Bouvet Island




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of Norway







Transnational Issues ::Bouvet Island




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Brazil  (South America)

Introduction ::Brazil




Background:


Following more than three centuries under Portuguese rule, Brazil
gained its independence in 1822, maintaining a monarchical system of
government until the abolition of slavery in 1888 and the subsequent
proclamation of a republic by the military in 1889. Brazilian coffee
exporters politically dominated the country until populist leader
Getulio VARGAS rose to power in 1930. By far the largest and most
populous country in South America, Brazil underwent more than half a
century of populist and military government until 1985, when the
military regime peacefully ceded power to civilian rulers. Brazil
continues to pursue industrial and agricultural growth and
development of its interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a
large labor pool, it is today South America's leading economic power
and a regional leader, one of the first in the area to begin an
economic recovery. Highly unequal income distribution and crime
remain pressing problems. In January 2010, Brazil assumed a
nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2010-11 term.







Geography ::Brazil




Location:


Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean



Geographic coordinates:


10 00 S, 55 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 8,514,877 sq km
country comparison to the world: 5
land: 8,459,417 sq km

water: 55,460 sq km

note: includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao
Paulo



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than the US



Land boundaries:


total: 16,885 km

border countries: Argentina 1,261 km, Bolivia 3,423 km, Colombia
1,644 km, French Guiana 730 km, Guyana 1,606 km, Paraguay 1,365 km,
Peru 2,995 km, Suriname 593 km, Uruguay 1,068 km, Venezuela 2,200 km



Coastline:


7,491 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin



Climate:


mostly tropical, but temperate in south



Terrain:


mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains, hills,
mountains, and narrow coastal belt



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Pico da Neblina 2,994 m



Natural resources:


bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates, platinum,
tin, rare earth elements, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber



Land use:


arable land: 6.93%

permanent crops: 0.89%

other: 92.18% (2005)



Irrigated land:


29,200 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


8,233 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 59.3 cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%)

per capita: 318 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


recurring droughts in northeast; floods and occasional frost in south



Environment - current issues:


deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys the habitat and endangers a
multitude of plant and animal species indigenous to the area; there
is a lucrative illegal wildlife trade; air and water pollution in
Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and several other large cities; land
degradation and water pollution caused by improper mining
activities; wetland degradation; severe oil spills



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


largest country in South America; shares common boundaries with
every South American country except Chile and Ecuador







People ::Brazil




Population:


201,103,330
country comparison to the world: 5
note: Brazil conducted a census in August 2000, which reported a
population of 169,872,855; that figure was about 3.8% lower than
projections by the US Census Bureau, and is close to the implied
underenumeration of 4.6% for the 1991 census (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 26.7% (male 27,092,880/female 26,062,244)

15-64 years: 66.8% (male 65,804,108/female 67,047,725)

65 years and over: 6.4% (male 5,374,230/female 7,358,082) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 28.9 years

male: 28.1 years

female: 29.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.166% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Birth rate:


18.11 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Death rate:


6.35 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154


Net migration rate:


-0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125


Urbanization:


urban population: 86% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.8% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 21.86 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 93
male: 25.39 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 18.15 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 72.26 years
country comparison to the world: 123
male: 68.7 years

female: 76 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.19 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.6% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


730,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


15,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Nationality:


noun: Brazilian(s)

adjective: Brazilian



Ethnic groups:


white 53.7%, mulatto (mixed white and black) 38.5%, black 6.2%,
other (includes Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 0.9%, unspecified 0.7%
(2000 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic (nominal) 73.6%, Protestant 15.4%, Spiritualist 1.3%,
Bantu/voodoo 0.3%, other 1.8%, unspecified 0.2%, none 7.4% (2000
census)



Languages:


Portuguese (official and most widely spoken language); note - less
common languages include Spanish (border areas and schools), German,
Italian, Japanese, English, and a large number of minor Amerindian
languages



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 88.6%

male: 88.4%

female: 88.8% (2004 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


5.2% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 61






Government ::Brazil




Country name:


conventional long form: Federative Republic of Brazil

conventional short form: Brazil

local long form: Republica Federativa do Brasil

local short form: Brasil



Government type:


federal republic



Capital:


name: Brasilia

geographic coordinates: 15 47 S, 47 55 W

time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins third Sunday in October; ends
third Sunday in February

note: Brazil is divided into three time zones, including one for the
Fernando de Noronha Islands



Administrative divisions:


26 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal district*
(distrito federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara,
Distrito Federal*, Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato Grosso,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Para, Paraiba, Parana, Pernambuco,
Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande do Sul,
Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Sergipe, Tocantins



Independence:


7 September 1822 (from Portugal)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 7 September (1822)



Constitution:


5 October 1988



Legal system:


based on Roman codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70; compulsory
over 18 and under 70 years of age; note - military conscripts do not
vote



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Dilma ROUSSEFF (since 1 January 2011);
Vice President Michel TEMER (since 1 January 2011); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government: President Dilma ROUSSEFF (since 1 January 2011);
Vice President Michel TEMER (since 1 January 2011)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held on 3
October 2010 with runoff on 31 October 2010 (next to be held on 5
October 2014 and, if necessary, a runoff election on 2 November 2014)

election results: Dilma ROUSSEFF (PT) elected president in a runoff
election; percent of vote - Dilma ROUSSEFF 56.01%, Jose SERRA (PSDB)
43.99%



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Congress or Congresso Nacional consists of the
Federal Senate or Senado Federal (81 seats; 3 members from each
state and federal district elected according to the principle of
majority to serve eight-year terms; one-third and two-thirds of
members elected every four years, alternately) and the Chamber of
Deputies or Camara dos Deputados (513 seats; members are elected by
proportional representation to serve four-year terms)

elections: Federal Senate - last held on 3 October 2010 for
two-thirds of the Senate (next to be held in October 2014 for
one-third of the Senate); Chamber of Deputies - last held on 3
October 2010 (next to be held in October 2014)

election results: Federal Senate - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - PMDB 20, PT 13, PSDB 10, DEM (formerly PFL) 7,
PTdoB 6, PP 5, PDT 4, PR 4, PSB 4, PPS 1, PRB 1, other 3; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PT 87,
PMDB 80, PSDB 53, DEM (formerly PFL) 43, PP 41, PR 41, PSB 34, PDT
28, PTdoB 21, PSC 17, PCdoB 15, PV 15, PPS 12, other 18



Judicial branch:


Supreme Federal Tribunal or STF (11 ministers are appointed for life
by the president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher Tribunal of
Justice; Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are appointed for life);
note - though appointed "for life," judges, like all federal
employees, have a mandatory retirement age of 70



Political parties and leaders:


Brazilian Democratic Movement Party or PMDB [Federal Deputy Michel
TEMER]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB [Roberto JEFFERSON]; Brazilian
Renewal Labor Party or PRTB [Jose Levy FIDELIX da Cruz]; Brazilian
Republican Party or PRB [Vitor Paulo Araujo DOS SANTOS]; Brazilian
Social Democracy Party or PSDB [Senator Sergio GUERRA]; Brazilian
Socialist Party or PSB [Governor Eduardo Henrique Accioly CAMPOS];
Christian Labor Party or PTC [Daniel TOURINHO]; Communist Party of
Brazil or PCdoB [Jose Renato RABELO]; Democratic Labor Party or PDT
[Carlos Roberto LUPI]; the Democrats or DEM [Federal Deputy Rodrigo
MAIA] (formerly Liberal Front Party or PFL); Freedom and Socialism
Party or PSOL [Heloisa HELENA]; Green Party or PV [Jose Luiz de
Franca PENNA]; Humanist Party of Solidarity or PHS [Paulo Roberto
MATOS]; Labor Party of Brazil or PTdoB [Luis Henrique de Oliveira
RESENDE]; Liberal Front Party or PFL (now known as the Democrats or
DEM); National Mobilization Party or PMN [Oscar Noronha FILHO];
Party of the Republic or PR [Sergio TAMER]; Popular Socialist Party
or PPS [Federal Deputy Fernando CORUJA]; Progressive Party or PP
[Francisco DORNELLES]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Vitor Jorge
Abdala NOSSEIS]; Workers' Party or PT [Jose Eduardo DUTRA]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Landless Workers' Movement or MST

other: labor unions and federations; large farmers' associations;
religious groups including evangelical Christian churches and the
Catholic Church



International organization participation:


AfDB (nonregional member), BIS, CAN (associate), CPLP, FAO, FATF,
G-15, G-20, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, LAS (observer), Mercosur,
MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
Paris Club (associate), PCA, RG, SICA (observer), UN, UN Security
Council (temporary), UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO,
Union Latina, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Mauro Luiz Iecker VIEIRA

chancery: 3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

note: temporary address - 1025 Thomas Jefferson St. NW, Suite 300 W,
Washington, DC 20007

telephone: [1] (202) 238-2805

FAX: [1] (202) 238-2827

consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York, San Francisco



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas A. SHANNON

embassy: Avenida das Nacoes, Quadra 801, Lote 3, Distrito Federal
Cep 70403-900, Brasilia

mailing address: Unit 7500, DPO, AA 34030

telephone: [55] (61) 3312-7000

FAX: [55] (61) 3225-9136

consulate(s) general: Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo

consulate(s): Recife



Flag description:


green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a blue
celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars; the globe has a
white equatorial band with the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and
Progress); the current flag was inspired by the banner of the former
Empire of Brazil (1822-1889); on the imperial flag, the green
represented the House of Braganza of Pedro I, the first Emperor of
Brazil, while the yellow stood for the Habsburg Family of his wife;
on the modern flag the green represents the forests of the country
and the yellow rhombus its mineral wealth; the blue circle and
stars, which replaced the coat of arms of the original flag, depict
the sky over Rio de Janeiro on the morning of 15 November 1889 - the
day the Republic of Brazil was declared; the number of stars has
changed with the creation of new states and has risen from an
original 21 to the current 27 (one for each state and the Federal
District)



National anthem:


name: "Hino Nacional Brasileiro" (Brazilian National Anthem)

lyrics/music: Joaquim Osorio Duque ESTRADA/Francisco Manoel DA SILVA

note: music adopted 1890, lyrics adopted 1922; the anthem's music,
composed in 1822, was used unofficially for many years before it was
adopted







Economy ::Brazil




Economy - overview:


Characterized by large and well-developed agricultural, mining,
manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's economy outweighs that
of all other South American countries, and Brazil is expanding its
presence in world markets. Since 2003, Brazil has steadily improved
its macroeconomic stability, building up foreign reserves, and
reducing its debt profile by shifting its debt burden toward real
denominated and domestically held instruments. In 2008, Brazil
became a net external creditor and two ratings agencies awarded
investment grade status to its debt. After record growth in 2007 and
2008, the onset of the global financial crisis hit Brazil in
September 2008. Brazil experienced two quarters of recession, as
global demand for Brazil's commodity-based exports dwindled and
external credit dried up. However, Brazil was one of the first
emerging markets to begin a recovery. Consumer and investor
confidence revived and GDP growth returned to positive in 2010,
boosted by an export recovery. Brazil's strong growth and high
interest rates make it an attractive destination for foreign
investors. Large capital inflows over the past year have contributed
to the rapid appreciation of its currency and led the government to
raise taxes on some foreign investments. President Dilma ROUSSEFF
has pledged to retain the previous administration's commitment to
inflation targeting by the Central Bank, a floating exchange rate,
and fiscal restraint.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.194 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 8
$2.041 trillion (2009 est.)

$2.045 trillion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.024 trillion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


7.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15
-0.2% (2009 est.)

5.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$10,900 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
$10,300 (2009 est.)

$10,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 6.1%

industry: 26.4%

services: 67.5% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


103.6 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 20%

industry: 14%

services: 66% (2003 est.)



Unemployment rate:


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
8.1% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


26% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.1%

highest 10%: 43% (2007)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


56.7 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 10
60.7 (1998)



Investment (gross fixed):


18.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Public debt:


60.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31
59.5% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140
4.9% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


15.17% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 9
20.48% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


44.65% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2
47.25% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$165.8 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 21
$125.3 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.522 trillion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 11
$972.8 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$2.104 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11
$1.542 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$1.167 trillion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 15
$589.4 billion (31 December 2008)

$1.37 trillion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa, citrus; beef



Industries:


textiles, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore, tin, steel,
aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and equipment



Industrial production growth rate:


11.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Electricity - production:


438.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Electricity - consumption:


404.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Electricity - exports:


2.034 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


42.06 billion kWh; note - supplied by Paraguay (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


2.572 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9


Oil - consumption:


2.46 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Oil - exports:


570,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Oil - imports:


632,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21


Oil - proved reserves:


13.2 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


Natural gas - production:


10.28 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Natural gas - consumption:


18.72 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Natural gas - exports:


NA (2009 est.)



Natural gas - imports:


8.44 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Natural gas - proved reserves:


364.2 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Current account balance:


-$52.73 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186
-$24.3 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$199.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23
$153 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


transport equipment, iron ore, soybeans, footwear, coffee, autos



Exports - partners:


China 12.49%, US 10.5%, Argentina 8.4%, Netherlands 5.39%, Germany
4.05% (2009)



Imports:


$187.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$127.7 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery, electrical and transport equipment, chemical products,
oil, automotive parts, electronics



Imports - partners:


US 16.12%, China 12.61%, Argentina 8.77%, Germany 7.65%, Japan 4.3%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$290.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5
$238.5 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$310.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25
$273.7 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$349.2 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13
$319.9 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$131 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$117.4 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


reals (BRL) per US dollar - 1.77 (2010), 1.9976 (2009), 1.8644
(2008), 1.85 (2007), 2.1761 (2006)







Communications ::Brazil




Telephones - main lines in use:


41.497 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 6


Telephones - mobile cellular:


173.959 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 5


Telephone system:


general assessment: good working system including an extensive
microwave radio relay system and a domestic satellite system with 64
earth stations; mobile-cellular usage has more than tripled in the
past 5 years

domestic: fixed-line connections have remained relatively stable in
recent years and stand at about 20 per 100 persons; less expensive
mobile-cellular technology has been a major driver in expanding
telephone service to the lower-income segments of the population
with mobile-cellular teledensity approaching 90 per 100 persons in
2009

international: country code - 55; landing point for a number of
submarine cables, including Americas-1, Americas-2, Atlantis-2,
GlobeNet, South Amrica-1, South American Crossing/Latin American
Nautilius, and UNISUR that provide direct connectivity to South and
Central America, the Caribbean, the US, Africa, and Europe;
satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat
(Atlantic Ocean region east), connected by microwave relay system to
Mercosur Brazilsat B3 satellite earth station (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-run Radiobras operates a radio and a television network; more
than 1,000 radio stations and more than 100 TV channels operating -
mostly privately owned; private media ownership highly concentrated
(2007)



Internet country code:


.br



Internet hosts:


19.316 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 5


Internet users:


75.982 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 4






Transportation ::Brazil




Airports:


4,072 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 2


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 726

over 3,047 m: 7

2,438 to 3,047 m: 28

1,524 to 2,437 m: 176

914 to 1,523 m: 460

under 914 m: 55 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 3,346

1,524 to 2,437 m: 87

914 to 1,523 m: 1,617

under 914 m: 1,642 (2010)



Heliports:


13 (2010)



Pipelines:


condensate/gas 62 km; gas 9,989 km; liquid petroleum gas 353 km; oil
4,517 km; refined products 4,465 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 28,857 km
country comparison to the world: 10
broad gauge: 5,709 km 1.600-m gauge (459 km electrified)

standard gauge: 194 km 1.440-m gauge

narrow gauge: 22,954 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 1,751,868 km
country comparison to the world: 4
paved: 96,353 km

unpaved: 1,655,515 km (2004)



Waterways:


50,000 km (most in areas remote from industry and population) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 3


Merchant marine:


total: 126
country comparison to the world: 45
by type: bulk carrier 19, cargo 18, chemical tanker 6, container 12,
liquefied gas 12, passenger/cargo 10, petroleum tanker 42, roll
on/roll off 7

foreign-owned: 26 (Chile 1, Denmark 3, Germany 6, Greece 1, Norway
3, Spain 12)

registered in other countries: 27 (Argentina 1, Bahamas 1, Ghana 1,
Liberia 20, Marshall Islands 1, Panama 3) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


cargo ports (tonnage): Ilha Grande (Gebig), Paranagua, Rio Grande,
Santos, Sao Sebastiao, Tubarao

container ports (TEUs): Santos (2,677,839), Itajai (693,580)



Transportation - note:


the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Atlantic Ocean as a significant risk for
piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels
have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen







Military ::Brazil




Military branches:


Brazilian Army (Exercito Brasileiro, EB), Brazilian Navy (Marinha do
Brasil (MB), includes Naval Air and Marine Corps (Corpo de
Fuzileiros Navais)), Brazilian Air Force (Forca Aerea Brasileira,
FAB) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


21-45 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 9 to 12 months; 17-45 years of age for
voluntary service; an increasing percentage of the ranks are
"long-service" volunteer professionals; women were allowed to serve
in the armed forces beginning in early 1980s when the Brazilian Army
became the first army in South America to accept women into career
ranks; women serve in Navy and Air Force only in Women's Reserve
Corps (2001)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 52,942,805

females age 16-49: 53,038,688 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 38,518,822

females age 16-49: 44,560,717 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 1,712,427

female: 1,652,491 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.7% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 88






Transnational Issues ::Brazil




Disputes - international:


unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is
locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics
trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations; two
uncontested boundary disputes with Uruguay over Isla Brasilera at
the tripoint with Argentina at the confluence of the Quarai/Cuareim
and Uruguay rivers, and in the 235 square kilometer Invernada River
region over which tributary represents the legitimate source of the
Quarai/Cuareim River; the Itaipu Dam reservoir covers over a once
contested section of Brazil-Paraguay boundary west of Guaira Falls
on the Rio Parana; an accord placed the long-disputed Isla
Suarez/Ilha de Guajara-Mirim, a fluvial island on the Rio Mamore,
under Bolivian administration in 1958, but sovereignty remains in
dispute



Illicit drugs:


second-largest consumer of cocaine in the world; illicit producer of
cannabis; trace amounts of coca cultivation in the Amazon region,
used for domestic consumption; government has a large-scale
eradication program to control cannabis; important transshipment
country for Bolivian, Colombian, and Peruvian cocaine headed for
Europe; also used by traffickers as a way station for narcotics air
transshipments between Peru and Colombia; upsurge in drug-related
violence and weapons smuggling; important market for Colombian,
Bolivian, and Peruvian cocaine; illicit narcotics proceeds are often
laundered through the financial system; significant illicit
financial activity in the Tri-Border Area (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@British Indian Ocean Territory  (South Asia)

Introduction ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Background:


Formerly administered as part of the British Crown Colony of
Mauritius, the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) was established
as an overseas territory of the UK in 1965. A number of the islands
of the territory were later transferred to the Seychelles when it
attained independence in 1976. Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only
of the six main island groups comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The
largest and most southerly of the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a
joint UK-US naval support facility. All of the remaining islands are
uninhabited. Between 1967 and 1973, former agricultural workers,
earlier residents in the islands, were relocated primarily to
Mauritius, but also to the Seychelles. Negotiations between 1971 and
1982 resulted in the establishment of a trust fund by the British
Government as compensation for the displaced islanders, known as
Chagossians. Beginning in 1998, the islanders pursued a series of
lawsuits against the British Government seeking further compensation
and the right to return to the territory. In 2006 and 2007, British
court rulings invalidated the immigration policies contained in the
2004 BIOT Constitution Order that had excluded the islanders from
the archipelago, but upheld the special military status of Diego
Garcia. In 2008, the House of Lords, as the final court of appeal in
the UK, ruled in favor of the British Government by overturning the
lower court rulings and finding no right of return for the
Chagossians.







Geography ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Location:


archipelago in the Indian Ocean, south of India, about halfway
between Africa and Indonesia



Geographic coordinates:


6 00 S, 71 30 E; note - Diego Garcia 7 20 S, 72 25 E



Map references:


Political Map of the World



Area:


total: 54,400 sq km
country comparison to the world: 127
land: 60 sq km; Diego Garcia 44 sq km

water: 54,340 sq km

note: includes the entire Chagos Archipelago of 55 islands



Area - comparative:


land area is about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


698 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 3 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical marine; hot, humid, moderated by trade winds



Terrain:


flat and low (most areas do not exceed two meters in elevation)



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: unnamed location on Diego Garcia 15 m



Natural resources:


coconuts, fish, sugarcane



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


NA



Environment - current issues:


NA



Geography - note:


archipelago of 55 islands; Diego Garcia, largest and southernmost
island, occupies strategic location in central Indian Ocean; island
is site of joint US-UK military facility







People ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Population:


no indigenous inhabitants

note: approximately 1,200 former agricultural workers resident in
the Chagos Archipelago, often referred to as Chagossians or Ilois,
were relocated to Mauritius and the Seychelles in the 1960s and
1970s; in November 2004, approximately 4,000 UK and US military
personnel and civilian contractors were living on the island of
Diego Garcia







Government ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Country name:


conventional long form: British Indian Ocean Territory

conventional short form: none

abbreviation: BIOT



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK; administered by a commissioner,
resident in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London



Legal system:


the laws of the UK where applicable apply



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

head of government: Commissioner Colin ROBERTS (since July 2008);
Administrator Joanne YEADON (since December 2007); note - both
reside in the UK and are represented by the officer commanding
British Forces on Diego Garcia

cabinet: NA
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary; commissioner and
administrator appointed by the monarch



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Flag description:


white with six blue wavy horizontal stripes; the flag of the UK is
in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the striped section bears a palm
tree and yellow crown (the symbols of the territory) centered on the
outer half of the flag; the wavy stripes represent the Indian Ocean;
although not officially described, the six blue stripes may stand
for the six main atolls of the archipelago







Economy ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Economy - overview:


All economic activity is concentrated on the largest island of Diego
Garcia, where a joint UK-US military facility is located.
Construction projects and various services needed to support the
military installation are performed by military and contract
employees from the UK, Mauritius, the Philippines, and the US. There
are no industrial or agricultural activities on the islands. The
territory earns foreign exchange by selling fishing licenses and
postage stamps.



Electricity - production:


NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by the US military



Electricity - consumption:


NA kWh



Exchange rates:


the US dollar is used







Communications ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Telephones - main lines in use:


NA



Telephone system:


general assessment: separate facilities for military and public
needs are available

domestic: all commercial telephone services are available, including
connection to the Internet

international: country code (Diego Garcia) - 246; international
telephone service is carried by satellite (2000)



Broadcast media:


Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) broadcasts over 3
separate frequencies for US and UK military personnel stationed on
the islands (2009)



Internet country code:


.io



Internet hosts:


827 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 169






Transportation ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 232


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

over 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


note: short section of paved road between port and airfield on Diego
Garcia



Ports and terminals:


Diego Garcia







Military ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Military branches:


no regular military forces



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK; the US lease on Diego
Garcia expires in 2016







Transnational Issues ::British Indian Ocean Territory




Disputes - international:


Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago including Diego Garcia; in
2001, the former inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago, evicted in
1967 and 1973 and now residing chiefly in Mauritius, were granted UK
citizenship and the right to repatriation; in May 2007, the UK Court
of Appeals upheld the May 2006 High Court of London judgment
reversing the UK government's 2004 Orders of Council that banned
habitation on the islands; a small group of Chagossians visited
Diego Garcia in April 2006; repatriation is complicated by the
exclusive US military lease of Diego Garcia that restricts access to
the largest viable island in the chain









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@British Virgin Islands  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::British Virgin Islands




Background:


First inhabited by Arawak and later by Carib Indians, the Virgin
Islands were settled by the Dutch in 1648 and then annexed by the
English in 1672. The islands were part of the British colony of the
Leeward Islands from 1872-1960; they were granted autonomy in 1967.
The economy is closely tied to the larger and more populous US
Virgin Islands to the west; the US dollar is the legal currency.







Geography ::British Virgin Islands




Location:


Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean,
east of Puerto Rico



Geographic coordinates:


18 30 N, 64 30 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 151 sq km
country comparison to the world: 219
land: 151 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: comprised of 16 inhabited and more than 20 uninhabited
islands; includes the islands of Tortola, Anegada, Virgin Gorda,
Jost van Dyke



Area - comparative:


about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


80 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 3 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by trade winds



Terrain:


coral islands relatively flat; volcanic islands steep, hilly



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Mount Sage 521 m



Natural resources:


NEGL



Land use:


arable land: 20%

permanent crops: 6.67%

other: 73.33% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October)



Environment - current issues:


limited natural fresh water resources (except for a few seasonal
streams and springs on Tortola, most of the islands' water supply
comes from wells and rainwater catchments)



Geography - note:


strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico







People ::British Virgin Islands




Population:


24,939 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 216


Age structure:


0-14 years: 19.8% (male 2,454/female 2,387)

15-64 years: 74.4% (male 9,346/female 8,881)

65 years and over: 5.8% (male 734/female 689) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 32.6 years

male: 32.7 years

female: 32.5 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.784% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68


Birth rate:


14.52 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Death rate:


4.41 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Net migration rate:


7.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Urbanization:


urban population: 40% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.045 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 1.07 male(s)/female

total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 14.11 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 128
male: 16.01 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 12.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.45 years
country comparison to the world: 58
male: 76.18 years

female: 78.78 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.71 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: British Virgin Islander(s)

adjective: British Virgin Islander



Ethnic groups:


black 82%, white 6.8%, other 11.2% (includes Indian and mixed) (2008)



Religions:


Protestant 86% (Methodist 33%, Anglican 17%, Church of God 9%,
Seventh-Day Adventist 6%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's Witnesses 2%, other
15%), Roman Catholic 10%, other 2%, none 2% (1991)



Languages:


English (official)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 97.8% (1991 est.)

male: NA

female: NA



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 17 years

male: 16 years

female: 19 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


3.2% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 145






Government ::British Virgin Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: British Virgin Islands

abbreviation: BVI



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK; internal self-governing



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: Road Town

geographic coordinates: 18 27 N, 64 37 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Independence:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



National holiday:


Territory Day, 1 July (1956)



Constitution:


13 June 2007



Legal system:


English law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Boyd MCCLEARY (since 20 August 2010)

head of government: Premier Ralph T. O'NEAL (since 23 August 2007)

cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from members of
the House of Assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition usually appointed
premier by the governor



Legislative branch:


unicameral House of Assembly (13 elected seats and 1 non-voting ex
officio member in the attorney general; members are elected by
direct popular vote, 1 member from each of nine electoral districts,
4 at-large members; members serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 20 August 2007 (next to be held in 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - VIP 45.2%, NDP 39.6%,
independent 15.2%; seats by party - VIP 10, NDP 2, independent 1



Judicial branch:


Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the High Court of
Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of the Supreme Court is a
resident of the islands and presides over the High Court);
Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary Jurisdiction



Political parties and leaders:


Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Ethlyn SMITH]; National
Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH]; United Party or UP [Gregory
MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP [Ralph T. O'NEAL]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


The Family Support Network; The Women's Desk

other: environmentalists



International organization participation:


Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, OECS, UNESCO
(associate), UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Flag description:


blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked on either side by a
vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll bearing the Latin
word VIGILATE (Be Watchful); the islands were named by COLUMBUS in
1493 in honor of Saint Ursula and her 11 virgin followers (some
sources say 11,000) who reputedly were martyred by the Huns in the
4th or 5th century; the figure on the banner holding a lamp
represents the saint, the other lamps symbolize her followers



National anthem:


note: as a territory of the United Kingdom, "God Save the Queen" is
official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::British Virgin Islands




Economy - overview:


The economy, one of the most stable and prosperous in the Caribbean,
is highly dependent on tourism generating an estimated 45% of the
national income. More than 934,000 tourists, mainly from the US,
visited the islands in 2008. In the mid-1980s, the government began
offering offshore registration to companies wishing to incorporate
in the islands, and incorporation fees now generate substantial
revenues. Roughly 400,000 companies were on the offshore registry by
yearend 2000. The adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late
1994, which provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated
statutory gateways for investigation of criminal offenses, made the
British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international
business. Livestock raising is the most important agricultural
activity; poor soils limit the islands' ability to meet domestic
food requirements. Because of traditionally close links with the US
Virgin Islands, the British Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as
its currency since 1959.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$853.4 million (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.095 billion (2008)



GDP - real growth rate:


-0.6% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$38,500 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 24


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 0.9%

industry: 10.7%

services: 88.3% (1996 est.)



Labor force:


12,770 (2004)
country comparison to the world: 213


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 0.6%

industry: 40%

services: 59.4% (2005)



Unemployment rate:


3.6% (1997)
country comparison to the world: 29


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


7.1% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 180
2% (2005)



Agriculture - products:


fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish



Industries:


tourism, light industry, construction, rum, concrete block, offshore
financial center



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


45 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Electricity - consumption:


41.85 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 141


Oil - imports:


691 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107


Current account balance:


$134.3 million (1999)
country comparison to the world: 56


Exports:


$25.3 million (2002)
country comparison to the world: 203


Exports - commodities:


rum, fresh fish, fruits, animals; gravel, sand



Imports:


$187 million f.o.b.



Imports - commodities:


building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs, machinery



Debt - external:


$36.1 million (1997)
country comparison to the world: 188


Exchange rates:


the US dollar is used







Communications ::British Virgin Islands




Telephones - main lines in use:


20,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 194


Telephones - mobile cellular:


24,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 206


Telephone system:


general assessment: worldwide telephone service

domestic: fixed line connections exceed 80 per 100 persons and
mobile cellular subscribership is approaching 100 per 100 persons

international: country code - 1-284; connected via submarine cable
to Bermuda; the East Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable
provides connectivity to 13 other islands in the eastern Caribbean
(2008)



Broadcast media:


1 private TV station; multi-channel TV is available from cable and
satellite subscription services; about a half dozen private radio
stations operating (2007)



Internet country code:


.vg



Internet hosts:


497 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 180


Internet users:


4,000 (2002)
country comparison to the world: 206






Transportation ::British Virgin Islands




Airports:


4 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 184


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 200 km
country comparison to the world: 207
paved: 200 km (2007)



Merchant marine:


registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)
country comparison to the world: 149


Ports and terminals:


Road Harbor







Military ::British Virgin Islands




Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 7,230 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 6,028

females age 16-49: 5,778 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 174

female: 167 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK







Transnational Issues ::British Virgin Islands




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe; large offshore financial center makes it vulnerable to
money laundering









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Brunei  (East & Southeast Asia)

Introduction ::Brunei




Background:


The Sultanate of Brunei's influence peaked between the 15th and 17th
centuries when its control extended over coastal areas of northwest
Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei subsequently entered a
period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal
succession, colonial expansion of European powers, and piracy. In
1888, Brunei became a British protectorate; independence was
achieved in 1984. The same family has ruled Brunei for over six
centuries. Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and natural gas
fields, the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs in Asia.







Geography ::Brunei




Location:


Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and Malaysia



Geographic coordinates:


4 30 N, 114 40 E



Map references:


Southeast Asia



Area:


total: 5,765 sq km
country comparison to the world: 172
land: 5,265 sq km

water: 500 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Delaware



Land boundaries:


total: 381 km

border countries: Malaysia 381 km



Coastline:


161 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm or to median line



Climate:


tropical; hot, humid, rainy



Terrain:


flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly lowland in west



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: South China Sea 0 m

highest point: Bukit Pagon 1,850 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, timber



Land use:


arable land: 2.08%

permanent crops: 0.87%

other: 97.05% (2005)



Irrigated land:


10 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


8.5 cu km (1999)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.09

per capita: 243 cu m/yr (1994)



Natural hazards:


typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are rare



Environment - current issues:


seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea linking Indian and
Pacific Oceans; two parts physically separated by Malaysia; almost
an enclave within Malaysia







People ::Brunei




Population:


395,027 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Age structure:


0-14 years: 26.6% (male 53,282/female 50,141)

15-64 years: 70.1% (male 135,640/female 136,292)

65 years and over: 3.3% (male 6,199/female 6,636) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 28.1 years

male: 28 years

female: 28.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.733% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Birth rate:


18 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Death rate:


3.32 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 219


Net migration rate:


2.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


Urbanization:


urban population: 75% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.6% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.047 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female

total population: 1 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 11.87 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 141
male: 14.19 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 9.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.96 years
country comparison to the world: 74
male: 73.72 years

female: 78.31 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.88 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


fewer than 200 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 156


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


Nationality:


noun: Bruneian(s)

adjective: Bruneian



Ethnic groups:


Malay 66.3%, Chinese 11.2%, indigenous 3.4%, other 19.1% (2004 est.)



Religions:


Muslim (official) 67%, Buddhist 13%, Christian 10%, other (includes
indigenous beliefs) 10%



Languages:


Malay (official), English, Chinese



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 92.7%

male: 95.2%

female: 90.2% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


3.7% of GDP (2000)
country comparison to the world: 121






Government ::Brunei




Country name:


conventional long form: Brunei Darussalam

conventional short form: Brunei

local long form: Negara Brunei Darussalam

local short form: Brunei



Government type:


constitutional sultanate (locally known as Malay Islamic Monarchy)



Capital:


name: Bandar Seri Begawan

geographic coordinates: 4 53 N, 114 56 E

time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular - daerah); Belait,
Brunei-Muara, Temburong, Tutong



Independence:


1 January 1984 (from the UK)



National holiday:


National Day, 23 February (1984); note - 1 January 1984 was the date
of independence from the UK, 23 February 1984 was the date of
independence from British protection



Constitution:


29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a State of
Emergency since December 1962, others since independence on 1
January 1984)



Legal system:


based on English common law; for Muslims, Islamic sharia law
supersedes civil law concerning Muslim marriages and inheritance;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age for village elections; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
(since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
(since 5 October 1967)

cabinet: Council of Cabinet Ministers appointed and presided over by
the monarch; deals with executive matters; note - there is also a
Religious Council (members appointed by the monarch) that advises on
religious matters, a Privy Council (members appointed by the
monarch) that deals with constitutional matters, and the Council of
Succession (members appointed by the monarch) that determines the
succession to the throne if the need arises
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary



Legislative branch:


The Sultan appointed a Legislative Council with 29 members as of 2
September 2005; the council has met in March of each year since then

elections: last held in March 1962 (date of next election NA)

note: The Legislative Council met on 25 September 2004 for first
time in 20 years with 21 members appointed by the Sultan; it passed
constitutional amendments calling for a 45-seat council with 15
elected members; no timeframe for an election has been announced



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court - chief justice and judges are sworn in by monarch for
three-year terms; Judicial Committee of Privy Council in London is
final court of appeal for civil cases; Sharia courts deal with
Islamic laws (2006)



Political parties and leaders:


National Development Party or NDP [YASSIN Affendi]

note: Brunei National Solidarity Party or PPKB [Abdul LATIF bin
Chuchu] and People's Awareness Party or PAKAR [Awang Haji MAIDIN bin
Haji Ahmad] were deregistered in 2007; parties are small and have
limited activity



Political pressure groups and leaders:


NA



International organization participation:


ADB, APEC, ARF, ASEAN, C, CP, EAS, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent),
ITSO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Yusoff Abd HAMID

chancery: 3520 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 237-1838

FAX: [1] (202) 885-0560



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Alexander
L. BARRASSO

embassy: Simpang 336-52-16-9, Jalan Kebangsaan, Bandar Seri Begawan,
BS8811

mailing address: PSC 470 (BSB), FPO AP 96507; P.O. Box 2991, Bandar
Seri Begawan BS8675, Negara Brunei Darussalam

telephone: [673] 238-4616

FAX: [673] 238-4606



Flag description:


yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double width)
and black starting from the upper hoist side; the national emblem in
red is superimposed at the center; yellow is the color of royalty
and symbolizes the sultanate; the white and black bands denote
Brunei's chief ministers; the emblem includes five main components:
a swallow-tailed flag, the royal umbrella representing the monarchy,
the wings of four feathers symbolizing justice, tranquility,
prosperity, and peace, the two upraised hands signifying the
government's pledge to preserve and promote the welfare of the
people, and the crescent moon denoting Islam, the state religion;
the state motto "Always render service with God's guidance" appears
in yellow Arabic script on the crescent; a ribbon below the crescent
reads "Brunei, the Abode of Peace"



National anthem:


name: "Allah Peliharakan Sultan" (God Bless His Majesty)

lyrics/music: Pengiran Haji Mohamed YUSUF bin Abdul Rahim/Awang Haji
BESAR bin Sagap

note: adopted 1951







Economy ::Brunei




Economy - overview:


Brunei has a small well-to-do economy that encompasses a mixture of
foreign and domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation,
welfare measures, and village tradition. Crude oil and natural gas
production account for just over half of GDP and more than 90% of
exports. Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia, and
substantial income from overseas investment supplements income from
domestic production. The government provides for all medical
services and free education through the university level and
subsidizes rice and housing. A new monetary authority was
established in January 2011 with responsibilities that include
monetary policy, monitoring of financial institutions, and currency
trading activities. Other plans for the future include upgrading the
labor force, reducing unemployment, strengthening the banking and
tourist sectors, increasing agricultural production, and, in
general, further widening the economic base beyond oil and gas.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$19.88 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126
$19.68 billion (2009 est.)

$20.04 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$11.96 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179
-1.8% (2009 est.)

-1.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$50,300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9
$50,700 (2009 est.)

$52,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 0.7%

industry: 74.1%

services: 25.3% (2008 est.)



Labor force:


188,800 (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 4.2%

industry: 62.8%

services: 33% (2008 est.)



Unemployment rate:


3.7% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 31
4% (2006)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.7% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
0.3% (2007 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


5.5% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144
5.5% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$3.374 billion (30 March 2009)
country comparison to the world: 108
$3.046 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$8.569 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 106
$7.597 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.274 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142
$2.38 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


rice, vegetables, fruits; chickens, water buffalo, cattle, goats,
eggs



Industries:


petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas, construction



Industrial production growth rate:


-5.4% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


Electricity - production:


3.069 billion kWh (2008)
country comparison to the world: 123


Electricity - consumption:


2.98 billion kWh (2008)
country comparison to the world: 127


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


146,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Oil - consumption:


16,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132


Oil - exports:


152,900 bbl/day (2007)
country comparison to the world: 58


Oil - imports:


238 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Oil - proved reserves:


1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Natural gas - production:


13.4 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Natural gas - consumption:


4.2 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Natural gas - exports:


9.2 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76


Natural gas - proved reserves:


390.8 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Current account balance:


$7.024 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27
$7.101 billion (2007 est.)



Exports:


$10.67 billion (2008)
country comparison to the world: 83
$8.25 billion (2007)



Exports - commodities:


crude oil, natural gas, garments



Exports - partners:


Japan 38.04%, Indonesia 25.95%, South Korea 14.17%, Australia 7.24%
(2009)



Imports:


$2.61 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144
$2.055 billion (2007 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
chemicals



Imports - partners:


Singapore 38.4%, Malaysia 18.7%, Japan 7.2%, China 5.42%, Thailand
5.19%, US 4.45%, UK 4.25% (2009)



Debt - external:


$0 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 195


Exchange rates:


Bruneian dollars (BND) per US dollar - 1.45 (2009), 1.45 (2009), 2
(2006), 2 (2005), 2 (2004)







Communications ::Brunei




Telephones - main lines in use:


80,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 149


Telephones - mobile cellular:


425,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 163


Telephone system:


general assessment: service throughout the country is good;
international service is good to Southeast Asia, Middle East,
Western Europe, and the US

domestic: every service available

international: country code - 673; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; the Asia-America Gateway
submarine cable network, scheduled for completion by late 2008, will
provide new links to Asia and the US; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-controlled Radio Television Brunei (RTB) operates 4 channels;
3 Malaysian TV stations are available; foreign TV broadcasts are
available via satellite and cable systems; RTB operates 5 radio
networks broadcasting on multiple frequencies; British Forces
Broadcast Service (BFBS) provides radio broadcasts on 2 FM stations;
some radio broadcast stations from Malaysia are available via
repeaters (2009)



Internet country code:


.bn



Internet hosts:


50,997 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 88


Internet users:


314,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 128






Transportation ::Brunei




Airports:


2 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 207


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

over 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Heliports:


3 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 37 km; oil 18 km (2009)



Roadways:


total: 2,971 km
country comparison to the world: 166
paved: 2,411 km

unpaved: 560 km (2008)



Waterways:


209 km (navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 m; the Belait,
Brunei, and Tutong rivers are major transport links) (2011)
country comparison to the world: 97


Merchant marine:


total: 9
country comparison to the world: 117
by type: chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 8 (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Lumut, Muara, Seria







Military ::Brunei




Military branches:


Royal Brunei Armed Forces: Royal Brunei Land Forces, Royal Brunei
Navy, Royal Brunei Air Force (Tentera Udara Diraja Brunei) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age (est.) for voluntary military service; non-Malays
are ineligible to serve (2007)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 111,166

females age 16-49: 115,071 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 93,809

females age 16-49: 97,345 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 3,509

female: 3,427 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


4.5% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 21






Transnational Issues ::Brunei




Disputes - international:


Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to resolve their
offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon
exploration, and renounce any territorial claims along their land
boundary; despite no public territorial claim to Louisa Reef, Brunei
implicitly lays claim by including it within the natural
prolongation of its continental shelf and basis for a seabed median
with Vietnam; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the
South China Sea" has eased tensions in the Spratly Islands but falls
short of a legally binding "code of conduct" desired by several of
the disputants



Illicit drugs:


drug trafficking and illegally importing controlled substances are
serious offenses in Brunei and carry a mandatory death penalty









page last updated on January 13, 2011

======================================================================




@Bulgaria  (Europe)

Introduction ::Bulgaria




Background:


The Bulgars, a Central Asian Turkic tribe, merged with the local
Slavic inhabitants in the late 7th century to form the first
Bulgarian state. In succeeding centuries, Bulgaria struggled with
the Byzantine Empire to assert its place in the Balkans, but by the
end of the 14th century the country was overrun by the Ottoman
Turks. Northern Bulgaria attained autonomy in 1878 and all of
Bulgaria became independent from the Ottoman Empire in 1908. Having
fought on the losing side in both World Wars, Bulgaria fell within
the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's Republic in
1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria held its
first multiparty election since World War II and began the
contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a
market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption,
and crime. The country joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007.







Geography ::Bulgaria




Location:


Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Romania and
Turkey



Geographic coordinates:


43 00 N, 25 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 110,879 sq km
country comparison to the world: 104
land: 108,489 sq km

water: 2,390 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Tennessee



Land boundaries:


total: 1,808 km

border countries: Greece 494 km, Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km,
Serbia 318 km, Turkey 240 km



Coastline:


354 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers



Terrain:


mostly mountains with lowlands in north and southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Black Sea 0 m

highest point: Musala 2,925 m



Natural resources:


bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land



Land use:


arable land: 29.94%

permanent crops: 1.9%

other: 68.16% (2005)



Irrigated land:


5,880 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


19.4 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 6.92 cu km/yr (3%/78%/19%)

per capita: 895 cu m/yr (2003)



Natural hazards:


earthquakes; landslides



Environment - current issues:


air pollution from industrial emissions; rivers polluted from raw
sewage, heavy metals, detergents; deforestation; forest damage from
air pollution and resulting acid rain; soil contamination from heavy
metals from metallurgical plants and industrial wastes



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls key land routes
from Europe to Middle East and Asia







People ::Bulgaria




Population:


7,148,785 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Age structure:


0-14 years: 13.8% (male 509,544/female 484,816)

15-64 years: 68.5% (male 2,426,060/female 2,508,772)

65 years and over: 17.7% (male 518,711/female 756,784) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 41.6 years

male: 39.4 years

female: 43.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-0.768% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 228


Birth rate:


9.43 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Death rate:


14.31 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


Net migration rate:


-2.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Urbanization:


urban population: 71% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: -0.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female

total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 17.26 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 108
male: 20.59 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 13.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 73.35 years
country comparison to the world: 114
male: 69.74 years

female: 77.17 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.41 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 141


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


346 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


100 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


Nationality:


noun: Bulgarian(s)

adjective: Bulgarian



Ethnic groups:


Bulgarian 83.9%, Turk 9.4%, Roma 4.7%, other 2% (including
Macedonian, Armenian, Tatar, Circassian) (2001 census)



Religions:


Bulgarian Orthodox 82.6%, Muslim 12.2%, other Christian 1.2%, other
4% (2001 census)



Languages:


Bulgarian (official) 84.5%, Turkish 9.6%, Roma 4.1%, other and
unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 98.2%

male: 98.7%

female: 97.7% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 13 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


4.1% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 103






Government ::Bulgaria




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Bulgaria

conventional short form: Bulgaria

local long form: Republika Balgariya

local short form: Balgariya



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Sofia

geographic coordinates: 42 41 N, 23 19 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


28 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast); Blagoevgrad, Burgas,
Dobrich, Gabrovo, Khaskovo, Kurdzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech, Montana,
Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Razgrad, Ruse, Shumen,
Silistra, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofiya (Sofia), Sofiya-Grad (Sofia City),
Stara Zagora, Turgovishte, Varna, Veliko Turnovo, Vidin, Vratsa,
Yambol



Independence:


3 March 1878 (as an autonomous principality within the Ottoman
Empire); 22 September 1908 (complete independence from the Ottoman
Empire)



National holiday:


Liberation Day, 3 March (1878)



Constitution:


adopted on 12 July 1991



Legal system:


civil and criminal law based on Roman law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Georgi PARVANOV (since 22 January 2002);
Vice President Angel MARIN (since 22 January 2002)

head of government: Prime Minister Boyko BORISSOV (since 27 July
2009); Deputy Prime Ministers Simeon DJANKOV and Tsvetan TSVETANOV
(since 27 July 2009)

cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
elected by the National Assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
election last held on 22 and 29 October 2006 (next to be held in
2011); chairman of the Council of Ministers (prime minister) elected
by the National Assembly; deputy prime ministers nominated by the
prime minister and elected by the National Assembly

election results: Georgi PARVANOV reelected president; percent of
vote - Georgi PARVANOV 77.3%, Volen SIDEROV 22.7%; Boyko BORISSOV
elected prime minister; result of legislative vote - 162 to 77 with
1 abstention



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Narodno Sabranie (240 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 5 July 2009 (next to be held in mid-2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - GERB 39.7%, BSP 17.7%,
MRF 14.4%, ATAKA 9.4%, Blue Coalition 6.8%, RZS 4.1%, other 7.9%;
seats by party - GERB 117, BSP 40, MRF 37, ATAKA 21, Blue Coalition
15, RZS 8, independents 2



Judicial branch:


independent judiciary comprised of judges, prosecutors and
investigating magistrates who are appointed, promoted, demoted, and
dismissed by a 25-member Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the
chairmen of the two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22
members, half of whom are elected by the National Assembly and the
other half by the bodies of the judiciary for a 5-year term in
office); three levels of case review; 182 courts of which two
Supreme Courts act as the last instance on civil and criminal cases
(the Supreme Court of Cassation) and appeals of government decisions
(the Supreme Administrative Court)



Political parties and leaders:


Agrarian National Union or ANU [Stefan LICHEV]; ATAKA (Attack party)
[Volen SIDEROV]; Blue Coalition [Ivan KOSTOV and Martin DIMITROV] (a
coalition of center-right parties dominated by UDF and DSB);
Bulgarian New Democracy [Borislav RALCHEV]; Bulgarian Socialist
Party or BSP [Sergei STANISHEV]; Citizens for the European
Development of Bulgaria or GERB [Boyko BORISSOV]; Coalition for
Bulgaria or CfB [Sergei STANISHEV] (coalition of parties dominated
by BSP); Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria or DSB [Ivan KOSTOV];
Gergyovden [Petar STOYANOVICH]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
Organization or IMRO [Krasimir KARAKACHANOV]; Liberal Initiative for
Democratic European Development or LIDER [Khristo KOVACHKI];
Movement for Rights and Freedoms or MRF [Ahmed DOGAN]; National
Movement for Stability and Progress or NDSV [Hristina HRISTOVA]
(formerly National Movement Simeon II or NMS2); New Time [Emil
KOSHLUKOV]; Order, Law, Justice or RZS [Yane YANEV]; Union of
Democratic Forces or UDF [Martin DIMITROV]; Union of Free Democrats
or UFD [Stefan SOFIYANSKI]; United Agrarians [Anastasia MOZER]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria or CITUB;
Podkrepa Labor Confederation

other: numerous regional, ethnic, and national interest groups with
various agendas



International organization participation:


Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO,
G- 9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO,
NSG, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNMIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Elena POPTODOROVA

chancery: 1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 387-0174

FAX: [1] (202) 234-7973

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador James B. WARLICK, Jr

embassy: 16 Kozyak Street, Sofia 1407

mailing address: American Embassy Sofia, US Department of State,
5740 Sofia Place, Washington, DC 20521-5740

telephone: [359] (2) 937-5100

FAX: [359] (2) 937-5320



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and red; the
pan-Slavic white-blue-red colors were modified by substituting a
green band (representing freedom) for the blue

note: the national emblem, formerly on the hoist side of the white
stripe, has been removed



National anthem:


name: "Mila Rodino" (Dear Homeland)

lyrics/music: Tsvetan Tsvetkov RADOSLAVOV

note: adopted 1964; the anthem was composed in 1885 by a student en
route to fight in the Serbo-Bulgarian War







Economy ::Bulgaria




Economy - overview:


Bulgaria, a former Communist country that entered the EU on 1
January 2007, averaged more than 6% growth from 2004 to 2008, driven
by significant amounts of foreign direct investment and consumption.
Successive governments have demonstrated a commitment to economic
reforms and responsible fiscal planning, but the global downturn
sharply reduced domestic demand, exports, capital inflows, and
industrial production. GDP contracted by approximately 5% in 2009,
and stagnated in 2010, despite a significant recovery in exports.
The economy is expected to grow modestly in 2011, however.
Corruption in the public administration, a weak judiciary, and the
presence of organized crime remain significant challenges.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$91.83 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
$91.83 billion (2009 est.)

$96.67 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$44.84 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


0% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190
-5% (2009 est.)

6.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$12,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89
$12,700 (2009 est.)

$13,300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 7.5%

industry: 27.6%

services: 64.9% (2009 est.)



Labor force:


2.61 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 7.5%

industry: 36.4%

services: 56.1% (2008 est.)



Unemployment rate:


9.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103
6.3% (2008 est.)



Population below poverty line:


14% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.9%

highest 10%: 24.1% (2008)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


29.8 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 114
26.4 (2001)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Public debt:


16.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115
14.8% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
1.6% (2009)



Central bank discount rate:


0.55% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 78
5.77% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


11.34% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
10.86% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$12.7 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 68
$12.91 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$35.37 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73
$33.93 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$34.54 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$33.89 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$7.103 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 69
$8.858 billion (31 December 2008)

$21.79 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


vegetables, fruits, tobacco, wine, wheat, barley, sunflowers, sugar
beets; livestock



Industries:


electricity, gas, water; food, beverages, tobacco; machinery and
equipment, base metals, chemical products, coke, refined petroleum,
nuclear fuel



Industrial production growth rate:


0.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153


Electricity - production:


44.83 billion kWh (2008)
country comparison to the world: 51


Electricity - consumption:


29.9 billion kWh (2008)
country comparison to the world: 59


Electricity - exports:


5.407 billion kWh (2008)



Electricity - imports:


3.097 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


3,227 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Oil - consumption:


125,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Oil - exports:


76,570 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


Oil - imports:


189,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Oil - proved reserves:


15 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Natural gas - production:


218 million cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 74


Natural gas - consumption:


3.35 billion cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 70


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 198


Natural gas - imports:


3.48 billion cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 38


Natural gas - proved reserves:


5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Current account balance:


-$1.528 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153
-$4.348 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$19.33 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$16.53 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


clothing, footwear, iron and steel, machinery and equipment, fuels



Exports - partners:


Germany 11.21%, Greece 9.43%, Italy 9.24%, Romania 8.52%, Turkey
7.33%, Belgium 5.61%, France 4.44% (2009)



Imports:


$22.78 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$22.22 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment; metals and ores; chemicals and plastics;
fuels, minerals, and raw materials



Imports - partners:


Russia 13.14%, Germany 12.23%, Italy 7.78%, Greece 6.17%, Romania
5.65%, Turkey 5.48%, Ukraine 4.81%, Austria 4.08% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$15.07 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
$18.53 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$36.15 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
$39.56 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$51.28 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54
$49.28 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$1.372 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70
$1.194 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


leva (BGN) per US dollar - 1.5138 (2010), 1.404 (2009), 1.3171
(2008), 1.4366 (2007), 1.5576 (2006)







Communications ::Bulgaria




Telephones - main lines in use:


2.164 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 52


Telephones - mobile cellular:


10.617 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 62


Telephone system:


general assessment: inherited an extensive but antiquated
telecommunications network from the Soviet era; quality has improved
with a modern digital trunk line now connecting switching centers in
most of the regions; remaining areas are connected by digital
microwave radio relay

domestic: the Bulgaria Telecommunications Company's fixed-line
monopoly terminated in 2005 in an effort to upgrade fixed-line
services; mobile-cellular teledensity, fostered by multiple service
providers, approached 150 telephones per 100 persons in 2009

international: country code - 359; submarine cable provides
connectivity to Ukraine and Russia; a combination submarine cable
and land fiber-optic system provides connectivity to Italy, Albania,
and Macedonia; satellite earth stations - 3 (1 Intersputnik in the
Atlantic Ocean region, 2 Intelsat in the Atlantic and Indian Ocean
regions) (2009)



Broadcast media:


4 national terrestrial television stations with 1 state-owned and 3
privately-owned; a vast array of TV stations are available from
cable and satellite TV providers; state-owned national radio
broadcasts over 3 networks; large number of private radio stations
broadcasting, especially in urban areas (2007)



Internet country code:


.bg



Internet hosts:


785,546 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 46


Internet users:


3.395 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 63






Transportation ::Bulgaria




Airports:


210 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 30


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 130

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 17

1,524 to 2,437 m: 15

under 914 m: 96 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 80

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 6

under 914 m: 73 (2010)



Heliports:


3 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,926 km; oil 339 km; refined products 156 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 4,294 km
country comparison to the world: 38
standard gauge: 4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,880 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 245 km 0.760-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 40,231 km
country comparison to the world: 89
paved: 39,587 km (includes 418 km of expressways)

unpaved: 644 km (2008)



Waterways:


470 km (2009)
country comparison to the world: 85


Merchant marine:


total: 37
country comparison to the world: 79
by type: bulk carrier 16, cargo 10, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas
2, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 4,
specialized tanker 1

foreign-owned: 27 (Germany 25, Russia 2)

registered in other countries: 31 (Comoros 8, Malta 7, Panama 6,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 10) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Burgas, Varna







Military ::Bulgaria




Military branches:


Bulgarian Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Bulgarian Air
Forces (Bulgarski Voennovazdyshni Sily, BVVS) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-27 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
ended in January 2008; service obligation 6-9 months (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,660,930

females age 16-49: 1,646,170 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,337,201

females age 16-49: 1,360,039 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 35,604

female: 34,199 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58






Transnational Issues ::Bulgaria




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


major European transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and,
to a lesser degree, South American cocaine for the European market;
limited producer of precursor chemicals; vulnerable to money
laundering because of corruption, organized crime; some money
laundering of drug-related proceeds through financial institutions
(2008)









page last updated on January 18, 2011

======================================================================




@Burkina Faso  (Africa)

Introduction ::Burkina Faso




Background:


Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) achieved independence from
France in 1960. Repeated military coups during the 1970s and 1980s
were followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s. Current
President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987 military coup and
has won every election since then. Burkina Faso's high population
density and limited natural resources result in poor economic
prospects for the majority of its citizens. Recent unrest in Cote
d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of several
hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find employment
in neighboring countries.







Geography ::Burkina Faso




Location:


Western Africa, north of Ghana



Geographic coordinates:


13 00 N, 2 00 W



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 274,200 sq km
country comparison to the world: 74
land: 273,800 sq km

water: 400 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Colorado



Land boundaries:


total: 3,193 km

border countries: Benin 306 km, Cote d'Ivoire 584 km, Ghana 549 km,
Mali 1,000 km, Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers



Terrain:


mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in west and
southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Mouhoun (Black Volta) River 200 m

highest point: Tena Kourou 749 m



Natural resources:


manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold, phosphates,
pumice, salt



Land use:


arable land: 17.66%

permanent crops: 0.22%

other: 82.12% (2005)



Irrigated land:


250 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


17.5 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.8 cu km/yr (13%/1%/86%)

per capita: 60 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


recurring droughts



Environment - current issues:


recent droughts and desertification severely affecting agricultural
activities, population distribution, and the economy; overgrazing;
soil degradation; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked savanna cut by the three principal rivers of the Black,
Red, and White Voltas







People ::Burkina Faso




Population:


16,241,811
country comparison to the world: 61
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 46.2% (male 3,646,661/female 3,621,648)

15-64 years: 51.3% (male 4,025,917/female 4,054,865)

65 years and over: 2.5% (male 156,895/female 240,246) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.8 years

male: 16.6 years

female: 17 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


3.095% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


Birth rate:


43.98 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


Death rate:


13.02 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 80


Urbanization:


urban population: 20% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 82.98 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 12
male: 90.53 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 75.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 53.32 years
country comparison to the world: 203
male: 51.39 years

female: 55.31 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


6.21 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.6% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


130,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


9,200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria and yellow fever

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Burkinabe (singular and plural)

adjective: Burkinabe



Ethnic groups:


Mossi over 40%, other approximately 60% (includes Gurunsi, Senufo,
Lobi, Bobo, Mande, and Fulani)



Religions:


Muslim 50%, indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian (mainly Roman
Catholic) 10%



Languages:


French (official), native African languages belonging to Sudanic
family spoken by 90% of the population



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 21.8%

male: 29.4%

female: 15.2% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 6 years

male: 7 years

female: 6 years (2009)



Education expenditures:


4.6% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 86






Government ::Burkina Faso




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Burkina Faso

local long form: none

local short form: Burkina Faso

former: Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta



Government type:


parliamentary republic



Capital:


name: Ouagadougou

geographic coordinates: 12 22 N, 1 31 W

time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


45 provinces; Bale, Bam, Banwa, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou,
Boulkiemde, Comoe, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Ioba, Kadiogo,
Kenedougou, Komondjari, Kompienga, Kossi, Koulpelogo, Kouritenga,
Kourweogo, Leraba, Loroum, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentenga, Nayala,
Noumbiel, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie, Sanmatenga,
Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Tuy, Yagha, Yatenga, Ziro,
Zondoma, Zoundweogo



Independence:


5 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


Republic Day, 11 December (1958); note - commemorates the day that
Upper Volta became an autonomous republic in the French Community



Constitution:


approved by referendum 2 June 1991; formally adopted 11 June 1991;
last amended January 2002



Legal system:


based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Blaise COMPAORE (since 15 October 1987)

head of government: Prime Minister Tertius ZONGO (since 4 June 2007)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 21 November 2010
(next to be held in 2015); prime minister appointed by the president
with the consent of the legislature

election results: Blaise COMPAORE reelected president; percent of
popular vote - Blaise COMPAORE 80.2%, Hama Arba DIALLO 8.2%,
Benewende Stanislas SANKARA 6.3%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (111 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: National Assembly election last held on 6 May 2007 (next
to be held in May 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CDP 73, ADF-RDA 14, UPR 5, UNIR-MS 4, CFD-B 3, UPS 2, PDP-PS 2, RDB
2, PDS 2, PAREN 1, PAI 1, RPC 1, UDPS 1



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Appeals Court



Political parties and leaders:


African Democratic Rally-Alliance for Democracy and Federation or
ADF-RDA [Gilbert OUEDRAOGO]; Citizen's Popular Rally or RPC [Antoine
QUARE]; Coalition of Democratic Forces of Burkina or CFD-B [Amadou
Diemdioda DICKO]; Congress for Democracy and Progress or CDP [Roch
Marc-Christian KABORE]; Democratic and Popular Rally or RDP [Nana
THIBAUT]; Movement for Tolerance and Progress or MTP [Nayabtigungou
Congo KABORE]; Party for African Independence or PAI [Soumane
TOURE]; Party for Democracy and Progress-Socialist Party or PDP-PS
[Ali LANKOANDE]; Party for Democracy and Socialism or PDS [Felix
SOUBEIGA]; Party for National Rebirth or PAREN [Jeanne TRAORE];
Rally for the Development of Burkina or RDB [Antoine KARGOUGOU];
Rally of Ecologists of Burkina Faso or RDEB [Ram OUEDRAGO];
Republican Party for Integration and Solidarity or PARIS; Union for
Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Fidele HIEN]; Union for
Rebirth - Sankarist Movement or UNIR-MS [Benewende STANISLAS]; Union
for the Republic or UPR [Toussaint Abel COULIBALY]; Union of
Sankarist Parties or UPS [Ernest Nongma OUEDRAOGO]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Burkinabe General Confederation of Labor or CGTB [Tole SAGNON];
Burkinabe Movement for Human Rights or MBDHP [Chrysigone ZOUGMORE];
Group of 14 February [Benewende STANISLAS]; National Confederation
of Burkinabe Workers or CNTB [Laurent OUEDRAOGO]; National
Organization of Free Unions or ONSL [Paul KABORE]

other: watchdog/political action groups throughout the country in
both organizations and communities



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NAM,
OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR,
UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Paramanga Ernest YONLI

chancery: 2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 332-5577

FAX: [1] (202) 667-1882



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas DOUGHERTY

embassy: 602 Avenue Raoul Follereau, Koulouba, Secteur 4

mailing address: 01 B. P. 35, Ouagadougou 01; pouch mail - US
Department of State, 2440 Ouagadougou Place, Washington, DC
20521-2440

telephone: [226] 50-30-67-23

FAX: [226] 50-30-38-90



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a yellow
five-pointed star in the center; red recalls the country's struggle
for independence, green is for hope and abundance,and yellow
represents the country's mineral wealth

note: uses the popular Pan-African colors of Ethiopia



National anthem:


name: "Le Ditanye" (Anthem of Victory)

lyrics/music: Thomas SANKARA

note: adopted 1974; also known as "Une Seule Nuit" (One Single
Night), Burkina Faso"s anthem was written by the country"s
president, an avid guitar player







Economy ::Burkina Faso




Economy - overview:


Burkina Faso is a poor, landlocked country that relies heavily on
cotton and gold exports for revenue. The country has few natural
resources and a weak industrial base. About 90% of the population is
engaged in subsistence agriculture, which is vulnerable to periodic
drought. Cotton is the main cash crop. Since 1998, Burkina Faso has
embarked upon a gradual privatization of state-owned enterprises and
in 2004 revised its investment code to attract foreign investment.
As a result of this new code and other legislation favoring the
mining sector, the country has seen an upswing in gold exploration
and production. By 2010, gold had become the main source of export
revenue.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$20.06 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124
$19.07 billion (2009 est.)

$18.48 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$8.672 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


5.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50
3.2% (2009 est.)

5.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,200 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204
$1,200 (2009 est.)

$1,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 30.1%

industry: 20.7%

services: 49.2% (2009 est.)



Labor force:


6.668 million
country comparison to the world: 64
note: a large part of the male labor force migrates annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment (2007)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 90%

industry and services: 10% (2000 est.)



Unemployment rate:


77% (2004)
country comparison to the world: 197


Population below poverty line:


46.4% (2004)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.8%

highest 10%: 32.2% (2004)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


39.5 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 64
48.2 (1994)



Investment (gross fixed):


19.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32
2.6% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 103
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.416 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 127
$1.303 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$2.406 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139
$2.22 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.373 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138
$1.236 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cotton, peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, sorghum, millet, corn, rice;
livestock



Industries:


cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap, cigarettes,
textiles, gold



Industrial production growth rate:


5.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Electricity - production:


611.6 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155


Electricity - consumption:


568.8 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Oil - consumption:


9,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Oil - imports:


8,283 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Current account balance:


-$486 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115
-$330 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$991 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
$772 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


cotton, livestock, gold



Exports - partners:


Singapore 16.76%, Belgium 12.78%, China 7.59%, Ghana 6.89%, India
6.36%, Denmark 5.76%, Niger 5.13%, Thailand 4.52% (2009)



Imports:


$1.48 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162
$1.186 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


capital goods, foodstuffs, petroleum



Imports - partners:


Cote d'Ivoire 24.31%, France 19.48%, Togo 6.42% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$1.588 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105
$1.296 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$2.002 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139
$1.784 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 506.04
(2010), 472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006)







Communications ::Burkina Faso




Telephones - main lines in use:


167,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 132


Telephones - mobile cellular:


3.299 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 109


Telephone system:


general assessment: system includes microwave radio relay,
open-wire, and radiotelephone communication stations; in 2006 the
government sold a 51 percent stake in the national telephone company
and ultimately plans to retain only a 23 percent stake in the company

domestic: fixed-line connections stand at less than 1 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular usage, fostered by multiple providers, is
increasing rapidly from a low base

international: country code - 226; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


2 TV stations - 1 state-owned and 1 privately-owned; state-owned
radio runs a national and regional network; substantial number of
privately-owned radio broadcast stations; transmissions of several
international broadcasters available in Ouagadougou (2007)



Internet country code:


.bf



Internet hosts:


1,877 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 155


Internet users:


178,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 144






Transportation ::Burkina Faso




Airports:


24 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 132


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 22

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 12

under 914 m: 6 (2010)



Railways:


total: 622 km
country comparison to the world: 109
narrow gauge: 622 km 1.000-m gauge

note: another 660 km of this railway extends into Cote d'Ivoire
(2008)



Roadways:


total: 92,495 km
country comparison to the world: 53
paved: 3,857 km

unpaved: 88,638 km (2004)







Military ::Burkina Faso




Military branches:


Army, Air Force of Burkina Faso (Force Aerienne de Burkina Faso,
FABF), National Gendarmerie (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; women may serve in
supporting roles (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,608,963 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,280,776

females age 16-49: 2,278,474 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 188,394

female: 185,975 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.2% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 120






Transnational Issues ::Burkina Faso




Disputes - international:


in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two
villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from a 2005
ICJ decision; in recent years citizens and rogue security forces rob
and harass local populations on both sides of the poorly defined
Burkina Faso-Niger border; despite the presence of more than 9,000
UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict
continues to spread into neighboring states that can no longer send
their migrant workers to work in Ivorian cocoa plantations









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Burma  (East & Southeast Asia)

Introduction ::Burma




Background:


Britain conquered Burma over a period of 62 years (1824-1886) and
incorporated it into its Indian Empire. Burma was administered as a
province of India until 1937 when it became a separate,
self-governing colony; independence from the Commonwealth was
attained in 1948. Gen. NE WIN dominated the government from 1962 to
1988, first as military ruler, then as self-appointed president, and
later as political kingpin. In September 1988, the military deposed
NE WIN and established a new ruling junta. Despite multiparty
legislative elections in 1990 that resulted in the main opposition
party - the National League for Democracy (NLD) - winning a
landslide victory, the junta refused to hand over power. NLD leader
and Nobel Peace Prize recipient AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who was under
house arrest from 1989 to 1995 and 2000 to 2002, was imprisoned in
May 2003 and subsequently transferred to house arrest. She was
finally released in November 2010. After the ruling junta in August
2007 unexpectedly increased fuel prices, tens of thousands of
Burmese marched in protest, led by prodemocracy activists and
Buddhist monks. In late September 2007, the government brutally
suppressed the protests, killing at least 13 people and arresting
thousands for participating in the demonstrations. Since then, the
regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries and arrest
persons suspected of participating in the pro-democracy protests.
Burma in early May 2008 was struck by Cyclone Nargis which official
estimates claimed left over 80,000 dead and 50,000 injured. Despite
this tragedy, the junta proceeded with its May constitutional
referendum, the first vote in Burma since 1990. Parliamentary
elections held in November 2010, considered flawed by many in the
international community, saw the junta's Union Solidarity and
Development Party garnering over 70 percent of the seats. Parliament
is constitutionally mandated to convene within 90 days of the
election; the president, two vice presidents, and ministers will be
selected at that time.







Geography ::Burma




Location:


Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal,
between Bangladesh and Thailand



Geographic coordinates:


22 00 N, 98 00 E



Map references:


Southeast Asia



Area:


total: 676,578 sq km
country comparison to the world: 40
land: 653,508 sq km

water: 23,070 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 5,876 km

border countries: Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463 km,
Laos 235 km, Thailand 1,800 km



Coastline:


1,930 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest
monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild
temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon,
December to April)



Terrain:


central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Andaman Sea 0 m

highest point: Hkakabo Razi 5,881 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten, lead,
coal, marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 14.92%

permanent crops: 1.31%

other: 83.77% (2005)



Irrigated land:


18,700 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


1,045.6 cu km (1999)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 33.23 cu km/yr (1%/1%/98%)

per capita: 658 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and landslides common
during rainy season (June to September); periodic droughts



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; industrial pollution of air, soil, and water;
inadequate sanitation and water treatment contribute to disease



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location near major Indian Ocean shipping lanes







People ::Burma




Population:


53,414,374
country comparison to the world: 24
note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 25.3% (male 6,193,263/female 5,990,658)

15-64 years: 69.3% (male 16,510,648/female 16,828,462)

65 years and over: 5.4% (male 1,121,412/female 1,493,298) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 26.5 years

male: 26 years

female: 27.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.096% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Birth rate:


19.49 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Death rate:


8.23 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Net migration rate:


-0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 134


Urbanization:


urban population: 33% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.9% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 50.76 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 50
male: 57.85 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 43.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 64.52 years
country comparison to the world: 167
male: 62.23 years

female: 66.94 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.28 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.7% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


240,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


25,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria

water contact disease: leptospirosis

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Burmese (singular and plural)

adjective: Burmese



Ethnic groups:


Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Indian 2%,
Mon 2%, other 5%



Religions:


Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%), Muslim
4%, animist 1%, other 2%



Languages:


Burmese (offical) minority ethnic groups have their own languages



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 89.9%

male: 93.9%

female: 86.4% (2006 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 9 years

male: 8 years

female: 8 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


1.2% of GDP (2001)
country comparison to the world: 181






Government ::Burma




Country name:


conventional long form: Union of Burma

conventional short form: Burma

local long form: Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the
US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of
Myanmar)

local short form: Myanma Naingngandaw

former: Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma

note: since 1989 the military authorities in Burma have promoted the
name Myanmar as a conventional name for their state; the US
Government did not adopt the name, which is a derivative of the
Burmese short-form name Myanma Naingngandaw



Government type:


military regime



Capital:


name: Rangoon (Yangon)

geographic coordinates: 16 48 N, 96 09 E

time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

note: Nay Pyi Taw is administrative capital



Administrative divisions:


7 divisions (taing-myar, singular - taing) and 7 states* (pyi
ne-myar, singular - pyi ne)

divisions: Ayeyarwady, Bago, Magway, Mandalay, Sagaing, Tanintharyi,
Yangon

states: Chin, Kachin, Kayah, Kayin, Mon, Rakhine (Arakan), Shan



Independence:


4 January 1948 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 4 January (1948); Union Day, 12 February (1947)



Constitution:


3 January 1974; suspended since 18 September 1988; a constitution
officially received 92.48% support in a flawed May 2008 referendum
that most observers judged fell far short of international standards
of free and fair elections; note - a new constitution is to take
effect when a parliament is convened possibly in late January 2011



Legal system:


based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Chairman of the State Peace and Development Council
(SPDC) Sr. Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992)

head of government: Prime Minister Lt. Gen THEIN SEIN (since 24
October 2007)

cabinet: Cabinet is overseen by the military regime that assumed
power 18 September 1988 under the name State Law and Order
Restoration Council (SLORC); changed in 1997 to SPDC
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: none



Legislative branch:


bicameral, consists of the House of Nationalities [Amyotha Hluttaw]
(224 seats, 168 directly elected and 56 appointed by the military;
members serve five-year terms) and the House of Representatives
[Pythu Hluttaw] (440 seats, 330 directly elected and 110 appointed
by the military; members serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 7 November 2010 (next to be held in December
2015)

election results: House of Nationalities - percent of vote by party
- USDP 74.8%, others (NUP, SNDP, RNDP, NDF, AMRDP) 25.2%; seats by
party - USDP 129, others 39; House of Representatives - percent of
vote by party - USDP 79.6%, others (NUP, SNDP, RNDP, NDF, AMRDP)
20.4%; seats by party - USDP 259, others 66



Judicial branch:


remnants of the British-era legal system are in place, but there is
no guarantee of a fair public trial; the judiciary is not
independent of the executive



Political parties and leaders:


All Mon Region Democracy Party or AMRDP; National Democratic Force
or NDF [KHIN MAUNG SWE]; National League for Democracy or NLD [AUNG
SHWE, AUNG SAN SUU KYI]; note - the party is defunct because it did
not register for the 2010 election; National Unity Party or NUP [TUN
YE]; Rakhine Nationalities Development Party or RNDP; Shan
Nationalities League for Democracy or SNLD [HKUN HTUN OO]; Union
Solidarity and Development Party or USDP [THEIN SEIN]; numerous
smaller parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Thai border: Ethnic Nationalities Council or ENC; Federation of
Trade Unions-Burma or FTUB (exile trade union and labor advocates);
National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma or NCGUB
(self-proclaimed government in exile) ["Prime Minister" Dr. SEIN
WIN] consists of individuals, some legitimately elected to the
People's Assembly in 1990 (the group fled to a border area and
joined insurgents in December 1990 to form a parallel government in
exile); National Council-Union of Burma or NCUB (exile coalition of
opposition groups)

Inside Burma: Kachin Independence Organization or KIO; Karen
National Union or KNU; Karenni National People's Party or KNPP;
Union Solidarity and Development Association or USDA (pro-regime, a
social and political mass-member organization) [HTAY OO, general
secretary] became the Union Solidarity and Development Party in
2010; United Wa State Army or UWSA; 88 Generation Students
(pro-democracy movement); several other Shan factions



International organization participation:


ADB, ARF, ASEAN, BIMSTEC, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OPCW (signatory), SAARC (observer), UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires HAN THU -
note: Burma does not have an ambassador to the United States

chancery: 2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 332-3344

FAX: [1] (202) 332-4351

consulate(s) general: none; Burma has a Mission to the UN in New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Charge d'Affaires Larry M. DINGER - note: The
United States does not have an ambassador to Burma

embassy: 110 University Avenue, Kamayut Township, Rangoon

mailing address: Box B, APO AP 96546

telephone: [95] (1) 536-509, 535-756, 538-038

FAX: [95] (1) 650-306



Flag description:


design consists of three equal horizontal stripes of yellow (top),
green, and red; centered on the green band is a large white
five-pointed star that partially overlaps onto the adjacent colored
stripes; the design revives the triband colors used by Burma from
1943-45, during the Japanese occupation



National anthem:


name: "Kaba Ma Kyei" (Till the End of the World, Myanmar)

lyrics/music: SAYA TIN

note: adopted 1948; Burma is among a handful of non-European nations
that have anthems rooted in indigenous traditions; the beginning
portion of the anthem is a traditional Burmese anthem before
transitioning into a Western-style orchestrated work







Economy ::Burma




Economy - overview:


Burma, a resource-rich country, suffers from pervasive government
controls, inefficient economic policies, corruption, and rural
poverty. Despite Burma's emergence as a natural gas exporter,
socio-economic conditions have deteriorated under the regime's
mismanagement, leaving most of the public in poverty, while military
leaders and their business cronies exploit the country's ample
natural resources. The economy suffers from serious macroeconomic
imbalances - including rising inflation, fiscal deficits, multiple
official exchange rates that overvalue the Burmese kyat, a distorted
interest rate regime, unreliable statistics, and an inability to
reconcile national accounts to determine a realistic GDP figure.
Burma's poor investment climate hampers the inflow of foreign
investment; in recent years, foreign investors have shied away from
nearly every sector except for natural gas, power generation,
timber, and mining. The business climate is widely perceived as
opaque, corrupt, and highly inefficient. Over 60% of the FY 2009-10
budget is allocated to state owned enterprises - most operating at a
deficit. The government has recently privatized a number of state
owned enterprises, but most of the benefits have accrued to regime
insiders and cronies. The most productive sectors will continue to
be in extractive industries - especially oil and gas, mining, and
timber - with the latter two causing significant environmental
degradation. Other areas, such as manufacturing, tourism and
services, struggle in the face of inadequate infrastructure,
unpredictable trade policies, neglected health and education
systems, and endemic corruption. A major banking crisis in 2003
caused 20 private banks to close; private banks still operate under
tight restrictions, limiting the private sector's access to credit.
The United States, the European Union, Canada, and Australia have
imposed financial and economic sanctions on Burma, prohibiting most
financial transactions with Burmese entities, imposing travel bans
on Burmese officials and others connected to the ruling regime, and
banning imports of certain Burmese products. These sanctions
affected the country's fledgling garment industry, isolated the
struggling banking sector, and raised the costs of doing business
with Burmese companies, particularly firms tied to Burmese regime
leaders. The global crisis of 2008-09 caused exports and domestic
consumer demand to drop. Remittances from overseas Burmese workers -
who had provided significant financial support for their families -
slowed or dried up as jobs were lost and migrant workers returned
home. Though the Burmese government has good economic relations with
its neighbors, better investment and business climates and an
improved political situation are needed to promote serious foreign
investment, exports, and tourism.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$60.07 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$58.27 billion (2009 est.)

$57.24 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$35.65 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117
1.8% (2009 est.)

1.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,100 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 209
$1,100 (2009 est.)

$1,100 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 43.2%

industry: 20%

services: 36.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


31.68 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 70%

industry: 7%

services: 23% (2001 est.)



Unemployment rate:


5.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56
4.9% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


32.7% (2007 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.8%

highest 10%: 32.4% (1998)



Investment (gross fixed):


15.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


9.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197
1.5% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


12% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 34
12% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


17% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33
17% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.907 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 89
$4.038 billion (31 December 2009 est)

note: this number reflects the vastly overvalued official exchange
rate of 5.38 kyat per dollar in 2007; at the unofficial black market
rate of 1,305 kyat per dollar for 2007, the stock of kyats would
equal only US$2.465 billion and Burma's velocity of money (the
number of times money turns over in the course of a year) would be
six, in line with the velocity of money for other countries in the
region; in 2009, the unofficial black market rate averaged 1,090
kyat per dollar.



Stock of broad money:


$7.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108
$6.231 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$8.552 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98
$6.858 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


rice, pulses, beans, sesame, groundnuts, sugarcane; hardwood; fish
and fish products



Industries:


agricultural processing; wood and wood products; copper, tin,
tungsten, iron; cement, construction materials; pharmaceuticals;
fertilizer; oil and natural gas; garments, jade and gems



Industrial production growth rate:


4.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Electricity - production:


6.286 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Electricity - consumption:


4.403 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


18,880 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Oil - consumption:


42,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Oil - exports:


2,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Oil - imports:


18,250 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Oil - proved reserves:


50 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Natural gas - production:


12.4 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Natural gas - consumption:


3.85 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Natural gas - exports:


8.55 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Natural gas - proved reserves:


283.2 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Current account balance:


$652 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
$705 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$7.841 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94
$6.862 billion (2009 est.)

note: official export figures are grossly underestimated due to the
value of timber, gems, narcotics, rice, and other products smuggled
to Thailand, China, and Bangladesh



Exports - commodities:


natural gas, wood products, pulses, beans, fish, rice, clothing,
jade and gems



Exports - partners:


Thailand 46.57%, India 12.99%, China 9.01%, Japan 5.65% (2009)



Imports:


$4.532 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121
$4.02 billion (2009 est.)

note: import figures are grossly underestimated due to the value of
consumer goods, diesel fuel, and other products smuggled in from
Thailand, China, Malaysia, and India



Imports - commodities:


fabric, petroleum products, fertilizer, plastics, machinery,
transport equipment; cement, construction materials, crude oil; food
products, edible oil



Imports - partners:


China 33.1%, Thailand 26.28%, Singapore 15.18% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.762 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79
$3.561 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$7.145 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96
$7.079 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


kyats (MMK) per US dollar - 1,000 (2010), 1,055 (2009), 1,205
(2008), 1,296 (2007), 1,280 (2006)







Communications ::Burma




Telephones - main lines in use:


812,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 86


Telephones - mobile cellular:


448,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 160


Telephone system:


general assessment: meets minimum requirements for local and
intercity service for business and government

domestic: system barely capable of providing basic service;
mobile-cellular phone system is grossly underdeveloped with a
subscribership base of only 1 per 100 persons

international: country code - 95; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2,
Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and ShinSat (2009)



Broadcast media:


government controls all domestic broadcast media; 3 state-controlled
television stations with 1 of the stations controlled by the armed
forces; a fourth TV channel, a pay-TV station, is a joint
state-private venture; access to satellite TV is limited with
residents required to register and pay a fee for all satellite
television receivers; 2 state-controlled domestic radio stations;
transmissions of several international broadcasters are available in
Burma; the opposition-backed station Democratic Voice of Burma
broadcasts into Burma via shortwave (2009)



Internet country code:


.mm



Internet hosts:


172 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 197


Internet users:


110,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 158






Transportation ::Burma




Airports:


76 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 72


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 37

over 3,047 m: 12

2,438 to 3,047 m: 8

1,524 to 2,437 m: 15

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 39

over 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 11

under 914 m: 23 (2010)



Heliports:


6 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,228 km; oil 558 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 3,955 km
country comparison to the world: 44
narrow gauge: 3,955 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 27,000 km
country comparison to the world: 101
paved: 3,200 km

unpaved: 23,800 km (2006)



Waterways:


12,800 km (2008)
country comparison to the world: 10


Merchant marine:


total: 26
country comparison to the world: 90
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 19, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 3,
specialized tanker 1

foreign-owned: 3 (Cyprus 1, Germany 1, Japan 1)

registered in other countries: 3 (Panama 3) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Moulmein, Rangoon, Sittwe







Military ::Burma




Military branches:


Myanmar Armed Forces (Tatmadaw): Army (Tatmadaw Kyi), Navy (Tatmadaw
Yay), Air Force (Tatmadaw Lay) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-35 years of age (men) and 18-27 years of age (women) for
compulsory military service; service obligation 2 years; male (ages
18-45) and female (ages 18-35) professionals (including doctors,
engineers, mechanics) serve up to 3 years; service terms may be
streched to 5 years in an officially declared emergency; forced
conscription of children, although officially prohibited, reportedly
continues (2011)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 14,558,921

females age 16-49: 14,539,703 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 10,281,131

females age 16-49: 10,988,695 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 526,557

female: 510,538 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.1% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69






Transnational Issues ::Burma




Disputes - international:


over half of Burma's population consists of diverse ethnic groups
who have substantial numbers of kin in neighboring countries;
Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic refugees, asylum
seekers, and rebels, as well as illegal cross-border activities from
Burma; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing
the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween River near the border with Burma;
citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns, China is
reconsidering construction of 13 dams on the Salween River but
energy-starved Burma with backing from Thailand remains intent on
building five hydro-electric dams downstream, despite identical
regional and international protests; India seeks cooperation from
Burma to keep Indian Nagaland separatists, such as the United
Liberation Front of Assam, from hiding in remote Burmese Uplands;
after 21 years, Bangladesh in January 2008 resumed talks with Burma
on delimiting a maritime boundary



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 503,000 (government offensives against ethnic insurgent groups
near the eastern borders; most IDPs are ethnic Karen, Karenni, Shan,
Tavoyan, and Mon) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Burma is a source country for women, children,
and men trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and commercial
sexual exploitation; Burmese women and children are trafficked to
East and Southeast Asia for commercial sexual exploitation, domestic
servitude, and forced labor; Burmese children are subjected to
conditions of forced labor in Thailand as hawkers and beggars; women
are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation to Malaysia and
China; some trafficking victims transit Burma from Bangladesh to
Malaysia and from China to Thailand; Burma's internal trafficking
remains the most serious concern occurring primarily from villages
to urban centers and economic hubs for labor in industrial zones,
agricultural estates, and commercial sexual exploitation; the
Burmese military continues to engage in the unlawful conscription of
child soldiers, and continues to be the main perpetrator of forced
labor inside Burma; ethnic insurgent groups also used compulsory
labor of adults and unlawful recruitment of children; the regime's
widespread use of and lack of accountability in forced labor and
recruitment of child soldiers is particularly worrying and
represents the top causal factor for Burma's significant trafficking
problem

tier rating: Tier 3 - serious problems remain in Burma, and in some
areas, most notably in the area of forced labor, the Government of
Burma is not making significant efforts to comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking, warranting a ranking
of Tier 3; in other areas, particularly with regard to international
sex trafficking of women and girls, the Government of Burma is
making significant efforts (2010)



Illicit drugs:


remains world's second largest producer of illicit opium with an
estimated production in 2008 of 340 metric tons, an increase of 26%,
and poppy cultivation in 2008 totaled 22,500 hectares, a 4% increase
from 2007; production in the United Wa State Army's areas of
greatest control remains low; Shan state is the source of 94% of
Burma's poppy cultivation; lack of government will to take on major
narcotrafficking groups and lack of serious commitment against money
laundering continues to hinder the overall antidrug effort; major
source of methamphetamine and heroin for regional consumption (2008)









page last updated on January 24, 2011

======================================================================




@Burundi  (Africa)

Introduction ::Burundi




Background:


Burundi's first democratically elected president was assassinated in
October 1993 after only 100 days in office, triggering widespread
ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions. More than 200,000
Burundians perished during the conflict that spanned almost a dozen
years. Hundreds of thousands of Burundians were internally displaced
or became refugees in neighboring countries. An internationally
brokered power-sharing agreement between the Tutsi-dominated
government and the Hutu rebels in 2003 paved the way for a
transition process that led to an integrated defense force,
established a new constitution in 2005, and elected a majority Hutu
government in 2005. The new government, led by President Pierre
NKURUNZIZA, signed a South African brokered ceasefire with the
country's last rebel group in September of 2006 but still faces many
challenges.







Geography ::Burundi




Location:


Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo



Geographic coordinates:


3 30 S, 30 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 27,830 sq km
country comparison to the world: 146
land: 25,680 sq km

water: 2,150 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maryland



Land boundaries:


total: 974 km

border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda
290 km, Tanzania 451 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude variation (772 m
to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual temperature varies with
altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade but is generally moderate
as the average altitude is about 1,700 m; average annual rainfall is
about 150 cm; two wet seasons (February to May and September to
November), and two dry seasons (June to August and December to
January)



Terrain:


hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some plains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lake Tanganyika 772 m

highest point: Heha 2,670 m



Natural resources:


nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum,
vanadium, arable land, hydropower, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin,
tungsten, kaolin, limestone



Land use:


arable land: 35.57%

permanent crops: 13.12%

other: 51.31% (2005)



Irrigated land:


210 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


3.6 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.29 cu km/yr (17%/6%/77%)

per capita: 38 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


flooding; landslides; drought



Environment - current issues:


soil erosion as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of
agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation (little forested land
remains because of uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel); habitat
loss threatens wildlife populations



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo watershed; the Kagera,
which drains into Lake Victoria, is the most remote headstream of
the White Nile







People ::Burundi




Population:


9,863,117
country comparison to the world: 85
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 46.3% (male 2,213,667/female 2,189,197)

15-64 years: 51.2% (male 2,399,466/female 2,470,743)

65 years and over: 2.5% (male 95,324/female 142,933) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.8 years

male: 16.5 years

female: 17.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


3.561% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Birth rate:


41.43 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Death rate:


9.87 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Net migration rate:


4.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Urbanization:


urban population: 10% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 6.8% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 63.38 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 29
male: 68.02 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 58.6 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 58.29 years
country comparison to the world: 191
male: 56.65 years

female: 59.98 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


6.25 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


110,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 44


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


11,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Burundian(s)

adjective: Burundian



Ethnic groups:


Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%, Europeans
3,000, South Asians 2,000



Religions:


Christian 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%), indigenous
beliefs 23%, Muslim 10%



Languages:


Kirundi (official), French (official), Swahili (along Lake
Tanganyika and in the Bujumbura area)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 59.3%

male: 67.3%

female: 52.2% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 10 years

male: 9 years

female: 7 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


7.2% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 17






Government ::Burundi




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Burundi

conventional short form: Burundi

local long form: Republique du Burundi/Republika y'u Burundi

local short form: Burundi

former: Urundi



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Bujumbura

geographic coordinates: 3 22 S, 29 21 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


17 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura Mairie, Bujumbura Rural, Bururi,
Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba,
Muramvya, Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi



Independence:


1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian administration)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 1 July (1962)



Constitution:


ratified by popular referendum 28 February 2005



Legal system:


based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal (adult)



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA - Hutu (since 26 August
2005); First Vice President Therence SINUNGURUZA - Tutsi (since 29
August 2010); Second Vice President Gervais RUFYIKIRI - Hutu (since
29 August 2010); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA - Hutu (since 26
August 2005); First Vice President Therence SINUNGURUZA - Tutsi
(since 29 August 2010); Second Vice President Gervais RUFYIKIRI -
Hutu (since 29 August 2010)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term (eligible for a second term); note - the constitution adopted
in February 2005 permited the post-transition president to be
elected by a two-thirds majority of the parliament; elections last
held 28 June 2010 (next to be held in 2015); vice presidents
nominated by the president, endorsed by parliament

election results: Pierre NKURUNZIZA elected president by popular
vote; Pierre NKURUNZIZA 91.6%, other 8.4%; note - opposition parties
withdrew from the election due to alleged government interference in
the electoral process



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament or Parlement, consists of a Senate (54 seats;
34 members elected by indirect vote to serve five-year terms, with
remaining seats assigned to ethnic groups and former chiefs of
state) and a National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (minimum 100
seats, 60% Hutu and 40% Tutsi with at least 30% being women;
additional seats appointed by a National Independent Electoral
Commission to ensure ethnic representation; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 23 July 2010 (next to be held in
2015); National Assembly - last held on 23 July 2010 (next to be
held in 2015)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - TBD; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - CNDD
81.2%, UPRONA 11.6%, FRODEBU 5.9%, others 1.3%; seats by party -
CNDD 81, UPRONA 17, FRODEBU 5, other 3



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court; High Court of
Justice (composed of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court)



Political parties and leaders:


governing parties: Burundi Democratic Front or FRODEBU [Leonce
NGENDAKUMANA]; National Council for the Defense of Democracy - Front
for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD-FDD [Jeremie NGENDAKUMANA];
Unity for National Progress or UPRONA [Bonaventure NIYOYANKANA]

note: a multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are:
National Council for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD [Leonard
NYANGOMA]; National Resistance Movement for the Rehabilitation of
the Citizen or MRC-Rurenzangemero [Epitace BANYAGANAKANDI]; Party
for National Redress or PARENA [Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Forum for the Strengthening of Civil Society or FORSC [Pacifique
NININAHAZWE] (civil society umbrella organization); Observatoire de
lutte contre la corruption et les malversations economiques or
OLUCOME [Gabriel RUFYIRI] (anti-corruption pressure group)

other: Hutu and Tutsi militias (loosely organized)



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, EAC, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Angele NIYUHIRE

chancery: Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone: [1] (202) 342-2574

FAX: [1] (202) 342-2578



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Pamela J. H. SLUTZ

embassy: Avenue des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura

mailing address: B. P. 1720, Bujumbura

telephone: [257] 223454

FAX: [257] 222926



Flag description:


divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and bottom)
and green panels (hoist side and fly side) with a white disk
superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed stars
outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star above,
two stars below); green symbolizes hope and optimism, white purity
and peace, and red the blood shed in the struggle for independence;
the three stars in the disk represent the three major ethnic groups:
Hutu, Twa, Tutsi, as well as the three elements in the national
motto: unity, work, progress



National anthem:


name: "Burundi Bwacu" (Our Beloved Burundi)

lyrics/music: Jean-Baptiste NTAHOKAJA/Marc BARENGAYABO

note: adopted 1962







Economy ::Burundi




Economy - overview:


Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an
underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly
agricultural which accounts for about 35% of GDP and employs more
than 90% of the population. Burundi's primary exports are coffee and
tea, which account for 90% of foreign exchange earnings, though
exports are a relatively small share of GDP. Burundi's export
earning - and its ability to pay for imports - rests primarily on
weather conditions and international coffee and tea prices. The
Tutsi minority, 14% of the population, dominates the coffee trade.
An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade resulted in more
than 200,000 deaths, forced more than 48,000 refugees into Tanzania,
and displaced 140,000 others internally. Only one in two children go
to school, and approximately one in 15 adults has HIV/AIDS. Food,
medicine, and electricity remain in short supply. Burundi's GDP grew
around 4% annually in 2006-09. Political stability and the end of
the civil war have improved aid flows and economic activity has
increased, but underlying weaknesses - a high poverty rate, poor
education rates, a weak legal system, and low administrative
capacity - risk undermining planned economic reforms. Burundi will
continue to remain heavily dependent on aid from bilateral and
multilateral donors; the delay of funds after a corruption scandal
cut off bilateral aid in 2007 reduced government's revenues and its
ability to pay salaries. Burundi joined the East African Community,
which should boost Burundi's regional trade ties, and received $700
million in debt relief in 2009. Instability spilling over from
eastern Congo-Kinshasa and the ban on minerals smuggled across
Burundi's border will be the main challenges to economic growth.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$3.418 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172
$3.29 billion (2009 est.)

$3.178 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.469 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85
3.5% (2009 est.)

4.5% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 228
$300 (2009 est.)

$300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 31.6%

industry: 21.4%

services: 47% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


4.245 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 85


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 93.6%

industry: 2.3%

services: 4.1% (2002 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


68% (2002 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 4.1%

highest 10%: 28% (2006)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


42.4 (1998)
country comparison to the world: 52


Investment (gross fixed):


25.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


7.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181
10.7% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


10% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 44
10.08% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


14.08% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
16.52% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$329.3 million (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 166
$293.6 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$568.3 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170
$506.7 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$465.7 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164
$415.2 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas, manioc
(tapioca); beef, milk, hides



Industries:


light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap; assembly of
imported components; public works construction; food processing



Industrial production growth rate:


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Electricity - production:


92 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Electricity - consumption:


125.6 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


40 million kWh; note - supplied by the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Oil - consumption:


3,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Oil - imports:


2,495 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Current account balance:


-$136 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
-$127 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$71 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199
$68 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


coffee, tea, sugar, cotton, hides



Exports - partners:


Germany 21.6%, Switzerland 14.86%, Belgium 9.32%, Sweden 8.94%,
Pakistan 5.82% (2009)



Imports:


$336 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192
$275 million (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


capital goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


Saudi Arabia 16.87%, Belgium 11.17%, Uganda 8.62%, Kenya 7.57%,
China 5.66%, France 5.35%, Germany 4.46%, India 4.24%, Tanzania
4.21% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$320 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121
$323 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.2 billion (2003)
country comparison to the world: 147


Exchange rates:


Burundi francs (BIF) per US dollar - 1,250.75 (2010), 1,230.18
(2009), 1,198 (2008), 1,065 (2007), 1,030 (2006)







Communications ::Burundi




Telephones - main lines in use:


31,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 177


Telephones - mobile cellular:


838,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 149


Telephone system:


general assessment: sparse system of open-wire, radiotelephone
communications, and low-capacity microwave radio relays

domestic: telephone density one of the lowest in the world;
fixed-line connections stand at well less than 1 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular usage is increasing but remains at a meager 10 per
100 persons

international: country code - 257; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-controlled La Radiodiffusion et Television Nationale de
Burundi (RTNB) operates the lone TV broadcast station and the only
national radio network; about 10 privately-owned radio broadcast
stations; transmissions of several international broadcasters are
available in Bujumbura (2007)



Internet country code:


.bi



Internet hosts:


201 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 194


Internet users:


157,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 147






Transportation ::Burundi




Airports:


8 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 161


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

over 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 7

914 to 1,523 m: 4

under 914 m: 3 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 12,322 km
country comparison to the world: 129
paved: 1,286 km

unpaved: 11,036 km (2004)



Waterways:


mainly on Lake Tanganyika between Bujumbura, Burundi's principal
port, and lake ports in Tanzania, Zambia, and the Democratic
Republic of Congo (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Bujumbura







Military ::Burundi




Military branches:


National Defense Force (Forces de Defense Nationale, FDN): Army
(includes naval detachment and Air Wing), National Gendarmerie (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


military service is voluntary; the armed forces law of 31 December
2004 did not specify a minimum age for enlistment, but the
government had previously said each recruit must have a primary
school-leaving certificate; mandatory retirement age 45 (enlisted),
50 (NCOs), and 55 (officers) (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,099,541

females age 16-49: 2,118,918 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,337,935

females age 16-49: 1,414,035 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 111,829

female: 111,802 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


5.9% of GDP (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10






Transnational Issues ::Burundi




Disputes - international:


Burundi and Rwanda dispute sections of border on the
Akanyaru/Kanyaru and the Kagera/Nyabarongo rivers, which have
changed course since the 1960s, when the boundary was delimited;
cross-border conflicts among Tutsi, Hutu, other ethnic groups,
associated political rebels, armed gangs, and various government
forces persist in the Great Lakes region



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 9,849 (Democratic Republic of the
Congo)

IDPs: 100,000 (armed conflict between government and rebels; most
IDPs in northern and western Burundi) (2007)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Cambodia  (East & Southeast Asia)

Introduction ::Cambodia




Background:


Most Cambodians consider themselves to be Khmers, descendants of the
Angkor Empire that extended over much of Southeast Asia and reached
its zenith between the 10th and 13th centuries. Attacks by the Thai
and Cham (from present-day Vietnam) weakened the empire, ushering in
a long period of decline. The king placed the country under French
protection in 1863 and it became part of French Indochina in 1887.
Following Japanese occupation in World War II, Cambodia gained full
independence from France in 1953. In April 1975, after a five-year
struggle, Communist Khmer Rouge forces captured Phnom Penh and
evacuated all cities and towns. At least 1.5 million Cambodians died
from execution, forced hardships, or starvation during the Khmer
Rouge regime under POL POT. A December 1978 Vietnamese invasion
drove the Khmer Rouge into the countryside, began a 10-year
Vietnamese occupation, and touched off almost 13 years of civil war.
The 1991 Paris Peace Accords mandated democratic elections and a
ceasefire, which was not fully respected by the Khmer Rouge.
UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some semblance of
normalcy under a coalition government. Factional fighting in 1997
ended the first coalition government, but a second round of national
elections in 1998 led to the formation of another coalition
government and renewed political stability. The remaining elements
of the Khmer Rouge surrendered in early 1999. Some of the surviving
Khmer Rouge leaders have been tried or are awaiting trial for crimes
against humanity by a hybrid UN-Cambodian tribunal supported by
international assistance. Elections in July 2003 were relatively
peaceful, but it took one year of negotiations between contending
political parties before a coalition government was formed. In
October 2004, King Norodom SIHANOUK abdicated the throne and his
son, Prince Norodom SIHAMONI, was selected to succeed him. Local
elections were held in Cambodia in April 2007, with little of the
pre-election violence that preceded prior elections. National
elections in July 2008 were relatively peaceful.







Geography ::Cambodia




Location:


Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between Thailand,
Vietnam, and Laos



Geographic coordinates:


13 00 N, 105 00 E



Map references:


Southeast Asia



Area:


total: 181,035 sq km
country comparison to the world: 89
land: 176,515 sq km

water: 4,520 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Oklahoma



Land boundaries:


total: 2,572 km

border countries: Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km



Coastline:


443 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry season
(December to April); little seasonal temperature variation



Terrain:


mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Gulf of Thailand 0 m

highest point: Phnum Aoral 1,810 m



Natural resources:


oil and gas, timber, gemstones, iron ore, manganese, phosphates,
hydropower potential



Land use:


arable land: 20.44%

permanent crops: 0.59%

other: 78.97% (2005)



Irrigated land:


2,700 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


476.1 cu km (1999)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 4.08 cu km/yr (1%/0%/98%)

per capita: 290 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


monsoonal rains (June to November); flooding; occasional droughts



Environment - current issues:


illegal logging activities throughout the country and strip mining
for gems in the western region along the border with Thailand have
resulted in habitat loss and declining biodiversity (in particular,
destruction of mangrove swamps threatens natural fisheries); soil
erosion; in rural areas, most of the population does not have access
to potable water; declining fish stocks because of illegal fishing
and overfishing



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


a land of paddies and forests dominated by the Mekong River and
Tonle Sap







People ::Cambodia




Population:


14,453,680
country comparison to the world: 66
note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 32.6% (male 2,388,922/female 2,336,439)

15-64 years: 63.8% (male 4,498,568/female 4,743,677)

65 years and over: 3.6% (male 197,649/female 329,038) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 22.6 years

male: 21.8 years

female: 23.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.705% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Birth rate:


25.58 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Death rate:


8.19 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Net migration rate:


-0.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 136


Urbanization:


urban population: 22% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4.6% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.045 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.6 male(s)/female

total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 56.94 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 37
male: 64.09 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 49.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 62.28 years
country comparison to the world: 177
male: 59.95 years

female: 64.72 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.9 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.8% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


75,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


6,900 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
malaria

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Cambodian(s)

adjective: Cambodian



Ethnic groups:


Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4%



Religions:


Buddhist 96.4%, Muslim 2.1%, other 1.3%, unspecified 0.2% (1998
census)



Languages:


Khmer (official) 95%, French, English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 73.6%

male: 84.7%

female: 64.1% (2004 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 10 years

male: 10 years

female: 9 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


1.6% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 176






Government ::Cambodia




Country name:


conventional long form: Kingdom of Cambodia

conventional short form: Cambodia

local long form: Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea (phonetic
pronunciation)

local short form: Kampuchea

former: Khmer Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, People's Republic of
Kampuchea, State of Cambodia



Government type:


multiparty democracy under a constitutional monarchy



Capital:


name: Phnom Penh

geographic coordinates: 11 33 N, 104 55 E

time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


23 provinces (khett, singular and plural) and 1 municipality (krong,
singular and plural)

provinces: Banteay Mean Choay, Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong
Chhnang, Kampong Spoe, Kampong Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong, Keb,
Krachen, Mondol Kiri, Otdar Mean Choay, Pailin, Pouthisat, Preah
Seihanu (Sihanoukville), Preah Vihear, Prey Veng, Rotanokiri, Siem
Reab, Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev

municipalities: Phnum Penh (Phnom Penh)



Independence:


9 November 1953 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 9 November (1953)



Constitution:


promulgated 21 September 1993



Legal system:


primarily a civil law mixture of French-influenced codes from the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) period,
royal decrees, and acts of the legislature with influences of
customary law and remnants of communist legal theory; increasing
influence of common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: King Norodom SIHAMONI (since 29 October 2004)

head of government: Prime Minister HUN SEN (since 14 January 1985)
[co-prime minister from 1993 to 1997]; Permanent Deputy Prime
Minister MEN SAM AN (since 25 September 2008); Deputy Prime
Ministers SAR KHENG (since 3 February 1992); SOK AN, TEA BANH, HOR
NAMHONG, NHEK BUNCHHAY (since 16 July 2004); BIN CHHIN (since 5
September 2007); KEAT CHHON, YIM CHHAI LY (since 24 September 2008);
KE KIMYAN (since 12 March 2009)

cabinet: Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
appointed by the monarch
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the king chosen by a Royal Throne Council from among all
eligible males of royal descent; following legislative elections, a
member of the majority party or majority coalition named prime
minister by the Chairman of the National Assembly and appointed by
the king



Legislative branch:


bicameral, consists of the Senate (61 seats; 2 members appointed by
the monarch, 2 elected by the National Assembly, and 57 elected by
parliamentarians and commune councils; members serve five-year
terms) and the National Assembly (123 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 22 January 2006 (next to be held in
January 2012); National Assembly - last held on 27 July 2008 (next
to be held in July 2013)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - CPP 69%,
FUNCINPEC 21%, SRP 10%; seats by party - CPP 45, FUNCINPEC 10, SRP
2; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - CPP 58%, SRP 22%,
HRP 7%; NRP 6%; FUNCINPEC 5%; others 2%; seats by party - CPP 90,
SRP 26, HRP 3, FUNCINPEC 2, NRP 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in the constitution
and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and lower courts)
exercises judicial authority



Political parties and leaders:


Cambodian People's Party or CPP [CHEA SIM]; Human Rights Party or
HRP [KHEM SOKHA, also spelled KEM SOKHA]; National United Front for
an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia or
FUNCINPEC [KEV PUT REAKSMEI]; Nationalist Party or NP [CHHIM SEAK
LENG] (formerly the NRP); Sam Rangsi Party or SRP [SAM RANGSI, also
spelled SAM RAINSY]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Cambodian Freedom Fighters or CFF; Partnership for Transparency Fund
or PTF (anti-corruption organization); Students Movement for
Democracy; The Committee for Free and Fair Elections or Comfrel

other: human rights organizations; vendors



International organization participation:


ADB, ARF, ASEAN, CICA (observer), EAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador HENG HEM

chancery: 4530 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone: [1] (202) 726-7742

FAX: [1] (202) 726-8381



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Carol A. RODLEY

embassy: #1, Street 96, Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh

mailing address: Box P, APO AP 96546

telephone: [855] (23) 728-000

FAX: [855] (23) 728-600



Flag description:


three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double width), and blue
with a white three-towered temple representing Angkor Wat outlined
in black in the center of the red band; red and blue are traditional
Cambodian colors

note: only national flag to incorporate an actual building in its
design



National anthem:


name: "Nokoreach" (Royal Kingdom)

lyrics/music: CHUON NAT/F. PERRUCHOT and J. JEKYLL

note: adopted 1941, restored 1993; the anthem, based on a Cambodian
folk tune, was restored after the defeat of the Communist regime







Economy ::Cambodia




Economy - overview:


From 2004 to 2007, the economy grew about 10% per year, driven
largely by an expansion in the garment sector, construction,
agriculture, and tourism. GDP contracted 1.5% in 2009 as a result of
the global economic slowdown, but climbed more than 4% in 1010,
driven by renewed exports. With the January 2005 expiration of a WTO
Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Cambodian textile producers were
forced to compete directly with lower-priced countries such as
China, India, Vietnam, and Bangladesh. The garment industry
currently employs more than 280,000 people - about 5% of the work
force - and contributes more than 70% of Cambodia's exports. In
2005, exploitable oil deposits were found beneath Cambodia's
territorial waters, representing a new revenue stream for the
government if commercial extraction begins. Mining also is
attracting significant investor interest, particularly in the
northern parts of the country. The government has said opportunities
exist for mining bauxite, gold, iron and gems. In 2006, a
US-Cambodia bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
(TIFA) was signed, and several rounds of discussions have been held
since 2007. Rubber exports increased about 25% in 2009 due to rising
global demand. The tourism industry has continued to grow rapidly,
with foreign arrivals exceeding 2 million per year in 2007-08,
however, economic troubles abroad dampened growth in 2009. The
global financial crisis is weakening demand for Cambodian exports,
and construction is declining due to a shortage of credit. The
long-term development of the economy remains a daunting challenge.
The Cambodian government is working with bilateral and multilateral
donors, including the World Bank and IMF, to address the country's
many pressing needs. The major economic challenge for Cambodia over
the next decade will be fashioning an economic environment in which
the private sector can create enough jobs to handle Cambodia's
demographic imbalance. More than 50% of the population is less than
25 years old. The population lacks education and productive skills,
particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside, which suffers from
an almost total lack of basic infrastructure.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$29.46 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110
$28.3 billion (2009 est.)

$28.73 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$11.36 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
-1.5% (2009 est.)

5% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$2,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188
$2,000 (2009 est.)

$2,100 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 29%

industry: 30%

services: 41% (2007 est.)



Labor force:


8 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 67.9%

industry: 12.7%

services: 19.5% (2009 est.)



Unemployment rate:


3.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27
2.5% (2000 est.)



Population below poverty line:


31% (2007 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3%

highest 10%: 34.2% (2007)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


43 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
40 (2004 est.)



Investment (gross fixed):


20.9% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
-0.7% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA% (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 83
5.25% (31 December 2007)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


17% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 40
16.01% (31 December 2008)



Stock of narrow money:


$850.7 million (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 142
$747.2 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$4.982 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119
$3.899 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$2.195 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123
$1.991 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


rice, rubber, corn, vegetables, cashews, tapioca, silk



Industries:


tourism, garments, construction, rice milling, fishing, wood and
wood products, rubber, cement, gem mining, textiles



Industrial production growth rate:


4.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Electricity - production:


1.273 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Electricity - consumption:


1.272 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


167 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Oil - consumption:


4,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Oil - imports:


30,970 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Current account balance:


-$918 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 133
-$865.7 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$5.212 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106
$4.302 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


clothing, timber, rubber, rice, fish, tobacco, footwear



Exports - partners:


US 45.32%, Singapore 9.46%, Germany 7.52%, UK 7.07%, Canada 6.31%,
Vietnam 4.15% (2009)



Imports:


$6.944 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105
$5.876 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


petroleum products, cigarettes, gold, construction materials,
machinery, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products



Imports - partners:


Thailand 24.83%, Vietnam 19.73%, China 14.08%, Singapore 11.34%,
Hong Kong 7.41%, Taiwan 5.1%, South Korea 4.06% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.84 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76
$3.289 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$4.338 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110
$4.284 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


riels (KHR) per US dollar - 4,217.96 (2010), 4,139.33 (2009),
4,070.94 (2008), 4,006 (2007), 4,103 (2006)







Communications ::Cambodia




Telephones - main lines in use:


54,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 159


Telephones - mobile cellular:


5.593 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 91


Telephone system:


general assessment: adequate fixed-line and/or cellular service in
Phnom Penh and other provincial cities; mobile-cellular phone
systems are widely used in urban areas to bypass deficiencies in the
fixed-line network; mobile-phone coverage is rapidly expanding in
rural areas

domestic: fixed-line connections stand at well less than 1 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular usage, aided by increasing competition
among service providers, is increasing and stands at 40 per 100
persons

international: country code - 855; adequate but expensive landline
and cellular service available to all countries from Phnom Penh and
major provincial cities; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
(Indian Ocean region) (2009)



Broadcast media:


mixture of state-owned, joint public-private, and privately-owned
broadcast media; 9 TV broadcast stations with most operating on
multiple channels, including 1 state-operated station broadcasting
from multiple locations, 6 stations either jointly operated or
privately-owned with some broadcasting from several locations, and 2
TV relay stations - one relaying a French television station and the
other relaying a Vietnamese television station; multi-channel cable
and satellite systems are available; roughly 50 radio broadcast
stations - 1 state-owned broadcaster with multiple stations and a
large mixture of public and private broadcasters; several
international broadcasters are available (2009)



Internet country code:


.kh



Internet hosts:


5,452 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 138


Internet users:


78,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 166






Transportation ::Cambodia




Airports:


17 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 141


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 6

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 11

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 9

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Railways:


total: 690 km
country comparison to the world: 105
narrow gauge: 690 km 1.000-m gauge

note: under restoration (2010)



Roadways:


total: 38,093 km
country comparison to the world: 91
paved: 2,977 km

unpaved: 35,116 km (2007)



Waterways:


2,400 km (mainly on Mekong River) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 37


Merchant marine:


total: 620
country comparison to the world: 20
by type: bulk carrier 40, cargo 526, carrier 5, chemical tanker 5,
container 5, liquefied gas 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 7,
petroleum tanker 12, refrigerated cargo 13, roll on/roll off 5

foreign-owned: 426 (Belgium 1, Canada 2, China 203, Cyprus 8, Egypt
12, Estonia 1, French Polynesia 1, Gabon 1, Greece 2, Hong Kong 11,
Indonesia 2, Japan 2, Latvia 1, Lebanon 6, Netherlands 1, Romania 1,
Russia 60, Singapore 4, South Korea 11, Syria 22, Taiwan 1, Turkey
26, UAE 2, UK 3, Ukraine 37, US 4, Vietnam 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Phnom Penh, Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville)







Military ::Cambodia




Military branches:


Royal Cambodian Armed Forces: Royal Cambodian Army, Royal Khmer
Navy, Royal Cambodian Air Force (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


conscription law of October 2006 requires all males between 18-30 to
register for military service; 18-month service obligation (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,980,995

females age 16-49: 3,970,244 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,751,618

females age 16-49: 2,835,807 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 168,519

female: 166,418 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43






Transnational Issues ::Cambodia




Disputes - international:


Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of boundary with missing
boundary markers and claims of Thai encroachments into Cambodian
territory; maritime boundary with Vietnam is hampered by unresolved
dispute over sovereignty of offshore islands; Thailand accuses
Cambodia of obstructing inclusion of Thai areas near Preah Vihear
temple ruins, awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962, as part
of a planned UN World Heritage site



Illicit drugs:


narcotics-related corruption reportedly involving some in the
government, military, and police; limited methamphetamine
production; vulnerable to money laundering due to its cash-based
economy and porous borders









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Cameroon  (Africa)

Introduction ::Cameroon




Background:


The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon merged in
1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally enjoyed
stability, which has permitted the development of agriculture,
roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry. Despite slow
movement toward democratic reform, political power remains firmly in
the hands of President Paul BIYA.







Geography ::Cameroon




Location:


Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial
Guinea and Nigeria



Geographic coordinates:


6 00 N, 12 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 475,440 sq km
country comparison to the world: 53
land: 472,710 sq km

water: 2,730 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than California



Land boundaries:


total: 4,591 km

border countries: Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km,
Republic of the Congo 523 km, Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298
km, Nigeria 1,690 km



Coastline:


402 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm



Climate:


varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid and hot
in north



Terrain:


diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau in
center, mountains in west, plains in north



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Fako 4,095 m (on Mt. Cameroon)



Natural resources:


petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 12.54%

permanent crops: 2.52%

other: 84.94% (2005)



Irrigated land:


260 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


285.5 cu km (2003)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.99 cu km/yr (18%/8%/74%)

per capita: 61 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


volcanic activity with periodic releases of poisonous gases from
Lake Nyos and Lake Monoun volcanoes

volcanism: Mt. Cameroon (elev. 4,095 m, 13,435 ft), which last
erupted in 2000, is the most frequently active volcano in West
Africa; lakes in Oku volcanic field have released fatal levels of
gas on occasion, killing some 1,700 people in 1986



Environment - current issues:


waterborne diseases are prevalent; deforestation; overgrazing;
desertification; poaching; overfishing



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa; throughout the country
there are areas of thermal springs and indications of current or
prior volcanic activity; Mount Cameroon, the highest mountain in
Sub-Saharan west Africa, is an active volcano







People ::Cameroon




Population:


19,294,149
country comparison to the world: 58
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 40.9% (male 3,891,762/female 3,822,870)

15-64 years: 55.9% (male 5,298,143/female 5,250,493)

65 years and over: 3.3% (male 283,289/female 332,744) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 19.3 years

male: 19.2 years

female: 19.4 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.157% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Birth rate:


33.58 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Death rate:


12.01 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 79


Urbanization:


urban population: 57% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 3.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female

total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 62.15 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 32
male: 66.8 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 57.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 54.04 years
country comparison to the world: 202
male: 53.21 years

female: 54.9 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


4.25 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


5.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


540,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


39,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Cameroonian(s)

adjective: Cameroonian



Ethnic groups:


Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%, Fulani
10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other African 13%,
non-African less than 1%



Religions:


indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%



Languages:


24 major African language groups, English (official), French
(official)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 67.9%

male: 77%

female: 59.8% (2001 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 10 years

male: 11 years

female: 9 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


2.9% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 150






Government ::Cameroon




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Cameroon

conventional short form: Cameroon

local long form: Republique du Cameroun/Republic of Cameroon

local short form: Cameroun/Cameroon

former: French Cameroon, British Cameroon, Federal Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Cameroon



Government type:


republic; multiparty presidential regime



Capital:


name: Yaounde

geographic coordinates: 3 52 N, 11 31 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


10 regions (regions, singular - region); Adamaoua, Centre, Est,
Extreme-Nord, Littoral, Nord, North-West (Nord-Ouest), Ouest, Sud,
South-West (Sud-Ouest)



Independence:


1 January 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)



National holiday:


Republic Day (National Day), 20 May (1972)



Constitution:


approved by referendum 20 May 1972; adopted 2 June 1972; revised
January 1996



Legal system:


based on French civil law system with common law influence; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


20 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Paul BIYA (since 6 November 1982)

head of government: Prime Minister Philemon YANG (since 30 June 2009)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from proposals submitted
by the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 11 October 2004
(next to be held by October 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president

election results: President Paul BIYA reelected; percent of vote -
Paul BIYA 70.9%, John FRU NDI 17.4%, Adamou Ndam NJOYA 4.5%, Garga
Haman ADJI 3.7%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (180 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
terms); note - the president can either lengthen or shorten the term
of the legislature

elections: last held on 22 July 2007 (next to be held in 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CPDM 140, SDF 14, UDC 4, UNDP 4, MP 1, vacant 17

note: the constitution calls for an upper chamber for the
legislature, to be called a Senate, but it has yet to be established



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); High Court of
Justice (consists of nine judges and six substitute judges; elected
by the National Assembly)



Political parties and leaders:


Cameroon People's Democratic Movement or CPDM [Paul BIYA];
Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC [Adamou Ndam NJOYA]; Movement
for the Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole DAISSALA]; Movement
for the Liberation and Development of Cameroon or MLDC [Marcel
YONDO]; National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP [Maigari
BELLO BOUBA]; Progressive Movement or MP; Social Democratic Front or
SDF [John FRU NDI]; Union of Peoples of Cameroon or UPC [Augustin
Frederic KODOCK]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Human Rights Defense Group [Albert MUKONG, president]; Southern
Cameroon National Council [Ayamba Ette OTUN]



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, C, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NAM,
OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph FOE-ATANGANA

chancery: 2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 265-8790

FAX: [1] (202) 387-3826



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Janet E. GARVEY

embassy: Avenue Rosa Parks, Yaounde

mailing address: P. O. Box 817, Yaounde; pouch: American Embassy, US
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520

telephone: [237] 2220 15 00; Consular: [237] 2220 16 03

FAX: [237] 2220 16 00 Ext. 4531; Consular FAX: [237] 2220 17 52

branch office(s): Douala



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and yellow,
with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band; the
vertical tricolor recalls the flag of France; red symbolizes unity,
yellow the sun, happiness, and the savannahs in the north, and green
hope and the forests in the south; the star is referred to as the
"star of unity"

note: uses the popular Pan-African colors of Ethiopia



National anthem:


name: "O Cameroun, Berceau de nos Ancetres" (O Cameroon, Cradle of
Our Forefathers)

lyrics/music: Rene Djam AFAME, Samuel Minkio BAMBA, Moise Nyatte
NKO"O [French], Benard Nsokika FONLON [English]/Rene Djam AFAME

note: adopted 1957; Cameroon's anthem, also known as "Chant de
Ralliement" (The Rallying Song), has been used unofficially since
1948 although officially adopted in 1957; the anthem has French and
English versions whose lyrics differ







Economy ::Cameroon




Economy - overview:


Because of its modest oil resources and favorable agricultural
conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed primary commodity
economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces many of the serious
problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as stagnate per
capita income, a relatively inequitable distribution of income, a
top-heavy civil service, and a generally unfavorable climate for
business enterprise. Since 1990, the government has embarked on
various IMF and World Bank programs designed to spur business
investment, increase efficiency in agriculture, improve trade, and
recapitalize the nation's banks. The IMF is pressing for more
reforms, including increased budget transparency, privatization, and
poverty reduction programs. Weak prices for oil and cocoa led to the
significant slowdown in growth in 2009. The government is under
pressure to reduce its budget deficit, which by the government's own
forecast will hit 2.8% of GDP, but the presidential election in 2011
may make fiscal austerity difficult.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$44.65 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93
$43.44 billion (2009 est.)

$43.05 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$21.88 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129
0.9% (2009 est.)

3.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$2,300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183
$2,300 (2009 est.)

$2,300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 20%

industry: 30.9%

services: 49.1% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


7.836 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 70%

industry: 13%

services: 17% (2001 est.)



Unemployment rate:


30% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Population below poverty line:


48% (2000 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.3%

highest 10%: 35.4% (2001)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


44.6 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 43
47.7 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


21.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Public debt:


16.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113
16.3% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55
3% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 104
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$2.888 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 111
$3.074 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$4.831 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
$4.921 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$848.8 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152
$1.523 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains, root
starches; livestock; timber



Industries:


petroleum production and refining, aluminum production, food
processing, light consumer goods, textiles, lumber, ship repair



Industrial production growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Electricity - production:


5.601 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Electricity - consumption:


4.801 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


77,310 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


Oil - consumption:


26,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Oil - exports:


107,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Oil - imports:


45,520 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89


Oil - proved reserves:


200 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Natural gas - production:


20 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Natural gas - consumption:


20 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Natural gas - proved reserves:


135.1 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49


Current account balance:


-$826 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130
-$1.137 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$4.371 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
$4.079 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


crude oil and petroleum products, lumber, cocoa beans, aluminum,
coffee, cotton



Exports - partners:


Netherlands 13.99%, Spain 12.25%, Italy 11.84%, China 9.14%, US
6.16%, France 5.51%, South Korea 4.66%, Belgium 4.33%, UK 4% (2009)



Imports:


$4.869 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117
$4.405 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery, electrical equipment, transport equipment, fuel, food



Imports - partners:


France 21.03%, Nigeria 10.79%, China 10.25%, Belgium 6.62%, US 4.31%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$4.023 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74
$3.676 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$3.344 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123
$3.231 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale francs 506.04 (2010),
472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006)







Communications ::Cameroon




Telephones - main lines in use:


323,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 110


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7.397 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 80


Telephone system:


general assessment: system includes cable, microwave radio relay,
and tropospheric scatter; Camtel, the monopoly provider of
fixed-line service, provides connections for only about 1 per 100
persons; equipment is old and outdated, and connections with many
parts of the country are unreliable

domestic: mobile-cellular usage, in part a reflection of the poor
condition and general inadequacy of the fixed-line network, has
increased sharply, reaching a subscribership base of 40 per 100
persons

international: country code - 237; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


government maintains tight control over broadcast media; state-owned
Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV), broadcasting on both a television
and radio network, was the only officially recognized and fully
licensed broadcaster until August 2007 when the government finally
issued licenses to 2 private TV broadcasters and 1 private radio
broadcaster; about 70 privately-owned unlicensed radio stations
operating but are subject to closure at any time; foreign news
services required to partner with state-owned national station (2007)



Internet country code:


.cm



Internet hosts:


90 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 204


Internet users:


749,600 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 106






Transportation ::Cameroon




Airports:


34 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 111


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 11

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 5

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 23

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 14

under 914 m: 6 (2010)



Pipelines:


oil 889 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 987 km
country comparison to the world: 90
narrow gauge: 987 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 50,000 km
country comparison to the world: 81
paved: 5,000 km

unpaved: 45,000 km (2004)



Waterways:


major rivers in the south, such as the Wouri and the Sanaga, are
largely non-navigable; in the north, the Benue, which connects
through Nigeria to the Niger River, is navigable in the rainy season
only to the port of Garoua (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Douala, Garoua, Limboh Terminal







Military ::Cameroon




Military branches:


Cameroon Armed Forces (Forces Armees Camerounaises, FAC): Army
(L'Armee de Terre), Navy (includes naval infantry), Air Force (Armee
de l'Air du Cameroun, AAC), Fire Fighter Corps, Gendarmerie (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-23 years of age for male and female voluntary military service;
no conscription; high school graduation required; service obligation
4 years; the government makes periodic calls for volunteers (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 4,553,576

females age 16-49: 4,443,217 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,721,307

females age 16-49: 2,647,640 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 213,538

female: 209,549 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 113






Transnational Issues ::Cameroon




Disputes - international:


Joint Border Commission with Nigeria reviewed 2002 ICJ ruling on the
entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences, including June
2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately ceded sovereignty of the
Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a full phase-out of Nigerian
control and patriation of residents in 2008; Cameroon and Nigeria
agree on maritime delimitation in March 2008; sovereignty dispute
between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an island at the mouth
of the Ntem River; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake
Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty,
which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 20,000-30,000 (Chad); 3,000 (Nigeria);
24,000 (Central African Republic) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Cameroon is a source, transit, and destination
country for women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced
labor and commercial sexual exploitation; most victims are children
trafficked within country, with girls primarily trafficked for
domestic servitude and sexual exploitation; both boys and girls are
also trafficked within Cameroon for forced labor in sweatshops,
bars, restaurants, and on tea and cocoa plantations; children are
trafficked into Cameroon from neighboring states for forced labor in
agriculture, fishing, street vending, and spare-parts shops;
Cameroon is a transit country for children trafficked between Gabon
and Nigeria, and from Nigeria to Saudi Arabia; it is a source
country for women transported by sex-trafficking rings to Europe

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cameroon is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts
to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders; while Cameroon
reported some arrests of traffickers, none of them were prosecuted
or punished; the government does not identify trafficking victims
among vulnerable populations nor does it monitor the number of
victims it intercepts (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Canada  (North America)

Introduction ::Canada




Background:


A land of vast distances and rich natural resources, Canada became a
self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the British
crown. Economically and technologically the nation has developed in
parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south across an
unfortified border. Canada faces the political challenges of meeting
public demands for quality improvements in health care and education
services, as well as responding to the particular concerns of
predominantly francophone Quebec. Canada also aims to develop its
diverse energy resources while maintaining its commitment to the
environment.







Geography ::Canada




Location:


Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean on the
east, North Pacific Ocean on the west, and the Arctic Ocean on the
north, north of the conterminous US



Geographic coordinates:


60 00 N, 95 00 W



Map references:


North America



Area:


total: 9,984,670 sq km
country comparison to the world: 2
land: 9,093,507 sq km

water: 891,163 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than the US



Land boundaries:


total: 8,893 km

border countries: US 8,893 km (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)



Coastline:


202,080 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in north



Terrain:


mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mount Logan 5,959 m



Natural resources:


iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, rare earth elements,
molybdenum, potash, diamonds, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal,
petroleum, natural gas, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 4.57%

permanent crops: 0.65%

other: 94.78% (2005)



Irrigated land:


7,850 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


3,300 cu km (1985)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 44.72 cu km/yr (20%/69%/12%)

per capita: 1,386 cu m/yr (1996)



Natural hazards:


continuous permafrost in north is a serious obstacle to development;
cyclonic storms form east of the Rocky Mountains, a result of the
mixing of air masses from the Arctic, Pacific, and North American
interior, and produce most of the country's rain and snow east of
the mountains

volcanism: the vast majority of volcanoes in Western Canada's Coast
Mountains remain dormant



Environment - current issues:


air pollution and resulting acid rain severely affecting lakes and
damaging forests; metal smelting, coal-burning utilities, and
vehicle emissions impacting on agricultural and forest productivity;
ocean waters becoming contaminated due to agricultural, industrial,
mining, and forestry activities



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Marine Life Conservation



Geography - note:


second-largest country in world (after Russia); strategic location
between Russia and US via north polar route; approximately 90% of
the population is concentrated within 160 km of the US border







People ::Canada




Population:


33,759,742 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Age structure:


0-14 years: 16.1% (male 2,761,711/female 2,626,836)

15-64 years: 68.7% (male 11,633,950/female 11,381,735)

65 years and over: 15.2% (male 2,220,189/female 2,862,787) (2010
est.)



Median age:


total: 40.7 years

male: 39.6 years

female: 41.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.804% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


Birth rate:


10.28 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Death rate:


7.87 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Net migration rate:


5.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Urbanization:


urban population: 80% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.056 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 4.99 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 186
male: 5.34 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 4.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 81.29 years
country comparison to the world: 10
male: 78.72 years

female: 84 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.58 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.4% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


73,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Nationality:


noun: Canadian(s)

adjective: Canadian



Ethnic groups:


British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other European 15%,
Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%, mixed
background 26%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 42.6%, Protestant 23.3% (including United Church
9.5%, Anglican 6.8%, Baptist 2.4%, Lutheran 2%), other Christian
4.4%, Muslim 1.9%, other and unspecified 11.8%, none 16% (2001
census)



Languages:


English (official) 58.8%, French (official) 21.6%, other 19.6% (2006
Census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99%

male: 99%

female: 99% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 17 years

male: 17 years

female: 17 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


4.9% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 75






Government ::Canada




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Canada



Government type:


a parliamentary democracy, a federation, and a constitutional
monarchy



Capital:


name: Ottawa

geographic coordinates: 45 25 N, 75 42 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November

note: Canada is divided into six time zones



Administrative divisions:


10 provinces and 3 territories*; Alberta, British Columbia,
Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest
Territories*, Nova Scotia, Nunavut*, Ontario, Prince Edward Island,
Quebec, Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*



Independence:


1 July 1867 (union of British North American colonies); 11 December
1931 (recognized by UK)



National holiday:


Canada Day, 1 July (1867)



Constitution:


made up of unwritten and written acts, customs, judicial decisions,
and traditions; the written part of the constitution consists of the
Constitution Act of 29 March 1867, which created a federation of
four provinces, and the Constitution Act of 17 April 1982, which
transferred formal control over the constitution from Britain to
Canada, and added a Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms as well
as procedures for constitutional amendments



Legal system:


based on English common law, except in Quebec, where civil law
system based on French law prevails; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


head of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General David JOHNSTON (since 1 October 2010)

head of government: Prime Minister Stephen Joseph HARPER (since 6
February 2006)

cabinet: Federal Ministry chosen by the prime minister usually from
among the members of his own party sitting in Parliament
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the advice of the prime minister for a five-year
term; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition in the House of
Commons generally designated prime minister by the governor general



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or Senat
(105 seats; members appointed by the governor general on the advice
of the prime minister and serve until 75 years of age) and the House
of Commons or Chambre des Communes (308 seats; members elected by
direct, popular vote to serve a maximum of five-year terms)

elections: House of Commons - last held on 14 October 2008 (next to
be held no later than 15 October 2012)

election results: House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
Conservative Party 37.6%, Liberal Party 26.2%, New Democratic Party
18.2%, Bloc Quebecois 10%, Greens 6.8%, other 1%; seats by party -
Conservative Party 145, Liberal Party 77, New Democratic Party 37,
Bloc Quebecois 48, other 1



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by the prime minister
through the governor general); Federal Court of Canada; Federal
Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named variously Court
of Appeal, Court of Queen's Bench, Superior Court, Supreme Court,
and Court of Justice)



Political parties and leaders:


Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE]; Conservative Party of Canada
[Stephen HARPER] (a merger of the Canadian Alliance and the
Progressive Conservative Party); Green Party [Elizabeth MAY];
Liberal Party [Michael IGNATIEFF]; New Democratic Party [Jack LAYTON]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: agricultural sector; automobile industry; business groups;
chemical industry; commercial banks; communications sector; energy
industry; environmentalists; public administration groups; steel
industry; trade unions



International organization participation:


ADB (nonregional member), AfDB (nonregional member), APEC, Arctic
Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, C,
CDB, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, FATF, G-20, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MINUSTAH, MONUSCO, NAFTA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OIF, OPCW,
OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), SECI (observer), UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Gary DOER

chancery: 501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001

telephone: [1] (202) 682-1740

FAX: [1] (202) 682-7701

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas,
Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, New York, Phoenix,
San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Tucson

consulate(s): Anchorage, Houston, Philadelphia, Princeton (New
Jersey), Raleigh, San Jose (California), Tucson



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador David C. JACOBSON

embassy: 490 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 1G8

mailing address: P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburg, NY 13669-0430; P.O. Box
866, Station B, Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5T1

telephone: [1] (613) 688-5335

FAX: [1] (613) 688-3082

consulate(s) general: Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto,
Vancouver, Winnipeg



Flag description:


two vertical bands of red (hoist and fly side, half width) with
white square between them; an 11-pointed red maple leaf is centered
in the white square; the maple leaf has long been a Canadian symbol;
the official colors of Canada are red and white



National anthem:


name: "O Canada"

lyrics/music: Adolphe-Basile ROUTHIER [French], Robert Stanley WEIR
[English]/Calixa LAVALLEE

note: adopted 1980; originally written in 1880, "O Canada" served as
an unofficial anthem many years before its official adoption; the
anthem has French and English versions whose lyrics differ; as a
Commonwealth realm, in addition to the national anthem, "God Save
the Queen" serves as the royal anthem (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Canada




Economy - overview:


As an affluent, high-tech industrial society in the trillion-dollar
class, Canada resembles the US in its market-oriented economic
system, pattern of production, and affluent living standards. Since
World War II, the impressive growth of the manufacturing, mining,
and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural
economy into one primarily industrial and urban. The 1989 US-Canada
Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and the 1994 North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) (which includes Mexico) touched off a dramatic
increase in trade and economic integration with the US, its
principal trading partner. Canada enjoys a substantial trade surplus
with the US, which absorbs about three-fourths of Canadian exports
each year. Canada is the US's largest foreign supplier of energy,
including oil, gas, uranium, and electric power. Given its great
natural resources, skilled labor force, and modern capital plant,
Canada enjoyed solid economic growth from 1993 through 2007.
Buffeted by the global economic crisis, the economy dropped into a
sharp recession in the final months of 2008, and Ottawa posted its
first fiscal deficit in 2009 after 12 years of surplus. Canada's
major banks, however, emerged from the financial crisis of 2008-09
among the strongest in the world, owing to the country's tradition
of conservative lending practices and strong capitalization. During
2010, Canada's economy grew only 3%, because of weak exports.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$1.335 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15
$1.297 trillion (2009 est.)

$1.33 trillion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.564 trillion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128
-2.5% (2009 est.)

0.5% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$39,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$38,700 (2009 est.)

$40,000 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.3%

industry: 26.4%

services: 71.3% (2009 est.)



Labor force:


18.59 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 2%

manufacturing: 13%

construction: 6%

services: 76%

other: 3% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
8.3% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


10.8%; note - this figure is the Low Income Cut-Off (LICO), a
calculation that results in higher figures than found in many
comparable economies; Canada does not have an official poverty line
(2005)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.6%

highest 10%: 24.8% (2000)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


32.1 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 100
31.5 (1994)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Public debt:


82.9% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16
82.5% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43
0.3% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


0.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 132
1.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


2.4% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
4.73% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$560.8 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 10
$470.9 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.469 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12
$1.144 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$2.963 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10
$2.606 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$1.681 trillion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 10
$1.002 trillion (31 December 2008)

$2.187 trillion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits, vegetables; dairy products;
forest products; fish



Industries:


transportation equipment, chemicals, processed and unprocessed
minerals, food products, wood and paper products, fish products,
petroleum and natural gas



Industrial production growth rate:


5.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Electricity - production:


620.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Electricity - consumption:


536.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 8


Electricity - exports:


55.73 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


23.5 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


3.289 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6


Oil - consumption:


2.151 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


Oil - exports:


2.001 million bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Oil - imports:


1.192 million bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Oil - proved reserves:


175.2 billion bbl
country comparison to the world: 2
note: includes oil sands (1 January 2010 est.)



Natural gas - production:


161.3 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


Natural gas - consumption:


94.62 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Natural gas - exports:


94.67 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Natural gas - imports:


16.59 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Natural gas - proved reserves:


1.754 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21


Current account balance:


-$40.21 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184
-$38.08 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$406.8 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10
$323.3 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


motor vehicles and parts, industrial machinery, aircraft,
telecommunications equipment; chemicals, plastics, fertilizers; wood
pulp, timber, crude petroleum, natural gas, electricity, aluminum



Exports - partners:


US 75.02%, UK 3.37%, China 3.09% (2009)



Imports:


$406.4 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12
$327.3 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, crude oil,
chemicals, electricity, durable consumer goods



Imports - partners:


US 51.1%, China 10.88%, Mexico 4.56% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$54.36 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$1.009 trillion (30 June 2010)
country comparison to the world: 15
$781.1 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$528.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10
$494.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$602.5 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11
$576.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Canadian dollars (CAD) per US dollar - 1.0346 (2010), 1.1431 (2009),
1.0364 (2008), 1.0724 (2007), 1.1334 (2006)







Communications ::Canada




Telephones - main lines in use:


18.251 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 16


Telephones - mobile cellular:


23.081 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 38


Telephone system:


general assessment: excellent service provided by modern technology

domestic: domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations

international: country code - 1; submarine cables provide links to
the US and Europe; satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4
Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean, and 2 Intersputnik - Atlantic
Ocean region) (2007)



Broadcast media:


2 public television broadcasting networks each with a large number
of network affilates; several private-commercial networks also with
multiple network affiliates; overall, about 150 TV stations;
multi-channel satellite and cable systems provide access to a wide
range of stations including US stations; mix of public and
commercial radio broadcasters with the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation (CBC), the public radio broadcaster, operating 4 radio
networks, Radio Canada International, and radio services to
indigenous populations in the north; roughly 2,000 licensed radio
stations in Canada (2008)



Internet country code:


.ca



Internet hosts:


7.77 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 13


Internet users:


26.96 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 16






Transportation ::Canada




Airports:


1,404 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 4


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 514

over 3,047 m: 18

2,438 to 3,047 m: 20

1,524 to 2,437 m: 148

914 to 1,523 m: 249

under 914 m: 79 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 890

1,524 to 2,437 m: 73

914 to 1,523 m: 377

under 914 m: 440 (2010)



Heliports:


12 (2010)



Pipelines:


crude and refined oil 23,564 km; liquid petroleum gas 74,980 km
(2009)



Railways:


total: 46,688 km
country comparison to the world: 5
standard gauge: 46,688 km 1.435-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 1,042,300 km
country comparison to the world: 6
paved: 415,600 km (includes 17,000 km of expressways)

unpaved: 626,700 km (2008)



Waterways:


636 km
country comparison to the world: 78
note: Saint Lawrence Seaway of 3,769 km, including the Saint
Lawrence River of 3,058 km, shared with United States (2008)



Merchant marine:


total: 184
country comparison to the world: 36
by type: bulk carrier 66, cargo 12, carrier 1, chemical tanker 14,
combination ore/oil 1, container 2, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 64,
petroleum tanker 12, roll on/roll off 6

foreign-owned: 15 (France 1, Netherlands 1, Norway 4, US 9)

registered in other countries: 223 (Australia 7, Bahamas 102,
Barbados 13, Cambodia 2, Cyprus 2, Honduras 1, Hong Kong 70, Liberia
4, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 4, Norway 1, Panama 5, Spain 5, US 1,
Vanuatu 5) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Fraser River Port, Halifax, Hamilton, Montreal, Port-Cartier, Quebec
City, Saint John (New Brunswick), Sept-Isles, Vancouver







Military ::Canada




Military branches:


Canadian Forces: Land Forces Command (LFC), Maritime Command
(MARCOM), Air Command (AIRCOM), Canada Command (homeland security)
(2010)



Military service age and obligation:


17 years of age for male and female voluntary military service (with
parental consent); 16 years of age for reserve and military college
applicants; Canadian citizenship or permanent residence status
required; maximum 34 years of age; service obligation 3-9 years
(2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 8,051,656

females age 16-49: 7,780,644 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 6,642,190

females age 16-49: 6,402,896 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 220,538

female: 208,033 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.1% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126






Transnational Issues ::Canada




Disputes - international:


managed maritime boundary disputes with the US at Dixon Entrance,
Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and the Gulf of Maine
including the disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; Canada,
the US, and other countries dispute the status of the Northwest
Passage; US works closely with Canada to intensify security measures
for monitoring and controlling legal and illegal movement of people,
transport, and commodities across the international border;
sovereignty dispute with Denmark over Hans Island in the Kennedy
Channel between Ellesmere Island and Greenland; commencing the
collection of technical evidence for submission to the Commission on
the Limits of the Continental Shelf in support of claims for
continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles from its declared
baselines in the Arctic, as stipulated in Article 76, paragraph 8,
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea



Illicit drugs:


illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug market and export
to US; use of hydroponics technology permits growers to plant large
quantities of high-quality marijuana indoors; increasing ecstasy
production, some of which is destined for the US; vulnerable to
narcotics money laundering because of its mature financial services
sector









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Cape Verde  (Africa)

Introduction ::Cape Verde




Background:


The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by the
Portuguese in the 15th century; Cape Verde subsequently became a
trading center for African slaves and later an important coaling and
resupply stop for whaling and transatlantic shipping. Following
independence in 1975, and a tentative interest in unification with
Guinea-Bissau, a one-party system was established and maintained
until multi-party elections were held in 1990. Cape Verde continues
to exhibit one of Africa's most stable democratic governments.
Repeated droughts during the second half of the 20th century caused
significant hardship and prompted heavy emigration. As a result,
Cape Verde's expatriate population is greater than its domestic one.
Most Cape Verdeans have both African and Portuguese antecedents.







Geography ::Cape Verde




Location:


Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, west
of Senegal



Geographic coordinates:


16 00 N, 24 00 W



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 4,033 sq km
country comparison to the world: 175
land: 4,033 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Rhode Island



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


965 km



Maritime claims:


measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and erratic



Terrain:


steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mt. Fogo 2,829 m (a volcano on Fogo Island)



Natural resources:


salt, basalt rock, limestone, kaolin, fish, clay, gypsum



Land use:


arable land: 11.41%

permanent crops: 0.74%

other: 87.85% (2005)



Irrigated land:


30 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


0.3 cu km (1990)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.02 cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%)

per capita: 39 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


prolonged droughts; seasonal harmattan wind produces obscuring dust;
volcanically and seismically active

volcanism: Fogo (elev. 2,829 m, 9,281 ft), which last erupted in
1995, is Cape Verde's only active volcano



Environment - current issues:


soil erosion; deforestation due to demand for wood used as fuel;
water shortages; desertification; environmental damage has
threatened several species of birds and reptiles; illegal beach sand
extraction; overfishing



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location 500 km from west coast of Africa near major
north-south sea routes; important communications station; important
sea and air refueling site







People ::Cape Verde




Population:


508,659 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Age structure:


0-14 years: 35.2% (male 76,012/female 74,993)

15-64 years: 58.5% (male 123,376/female 127,653)

65 years and over: 6.4% (male 10,040/female 17,400) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 22.3 years

male: 21.4 years

female: 23.1 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.459% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


Birth rate:


21.67 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Death rate:


6.41 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153


Net migration rate:


-0.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


Urbanization:


urban population: 60% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 3.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.61 male(s)/female

total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 27.89 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 78
male: 31.86 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 23.79 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 70.41 years
country comparison to the world: 144
male: 68.24 years

female: 72.64 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.54 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.04% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 167


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


775 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 144


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


225 (as of 2001)
country comparison to the world: 103


Nationality:


noun: Cape Verdean(s)

adjective: Cape Verdean



Ethnic groups:


Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1%



Religions:


Roman Catholic (infused with indigenous beliefs), Protestant (mostly
Church of the Nazarene)



Languages:


Portuguese (official), Crioulo (a blend of Portuguese and West
African words)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 76.6%

male: 85.8%

female: 69.2% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 11 years

female: 12 years (2006)



Education expenditures:


5.7% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 39






Government ::Cape Verde




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Cape Verde

conventional short form: Cape Verde

local long form: Republica de Cabo Verde

local short form: Cabo Verde



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Praia

geographic coordinates: 14 55 N, 23 31 W

time difference: UTC-1 (4 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


17 municipalities (concelhos, singular - concelho); Boa Vista,
Brava, Maio, Mosteiros, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira Grande,
Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Domingos, Sao Filipe, Sao
Miguel, Sao Nicolau, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal



Independence:


5 July 1975 (from Portugal)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 5 July (1975)



Constitution:


25 September 1992; a major revision on 23 November 1995
substantially increased the powers of the president; a 1999 revision
created the position of national ombudsman (Provedor de Justica)



Legal system:


based on the legal system of Portugal; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Pedro Verona Rodrigues PIRES (since 22
March 2001)

head of government: Prime Minister Jose Maria Pereira NEVES (since 1
February 2001)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 12 February 2006
(next to be held in 2011); prime minister nominated by the National
Assembly and appointed by the president

election results: Pedro PIRES reelected president; percent of vote -
Pedro PIRES (PAICV) 51.2%, Carlos VIEGA (MPD) 48.8%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (72 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 22 January 2006 (next to be held on 6
February 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - PAICV 52.3%, MPD 44%,
UCID 2.7%; seats by party - PAICV 41, MPD 29, UCID 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de Justia



Political parties and leaders:


African Party for Independence of Cape Verde or PAICV [Jose Maria
Pereira NEVES, chairman]; Democratic and Independent Cape Verdean
Union or UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO]; Democratic Christian Party or PDC
[Manuel RODRIGUES]; Democratic Renovation Party or PRD [Victor
FIDALGO]; Movement for Democracy or MPD [Jorge SANTOS]; Party for
Democratic Convergence or PCD [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO]; Party of Work
and Solidarity or PTS [Isaias RODRIGUES]; Social Democratic Party or
PSD [Joao ALEM]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: environmentalists; political pressure groups



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AOSIS, AU, CD, CPLP, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Fatima Lima VEIGA

chancery: 3415 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 965-6820

FAX: [1] (202) 965-1207

consulate(s) general: Boston



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Dana BROWN

embassy: Rua Abilio Macedo n6, Praia

mailing address: C. P. 201, Praia

telephone: [238] 2-60-89-00

FAX: [238] 2-61-13-55



Flag description:


five unequal horizontal bands; the top-most band of blue - equal to
one half the width of the flag - is followed by three bands of
white, red, and white, each equal to 1/12 of the width, and a bottom
stripe of blue equal to one quarter of the flag width; a circle of
10, yellow, five-pointed stars is centered on the red stripe and
positioned 3/8 of the length of the flag from the hoist side; blue
stands for the sea and the sky, the circle of stars represents the
10 major islands united into a nation, the stripes symbolize the
road to formation of the country through peace (white) and effort
(red)



National anthem:


name: "Cantico da Liberdade" (Song of Freedom)

lyrics/music: Amilcar Spencer LOPES/Adalberto Higino Tavares SILVA

note: adopted 1996







Economy ::Cape Verde




Economy - overview:


This island economy suffers from a poor natural resource base,
including serious water shortages exacerbated by cycles of long-term
drought and poor soil for agriculture on several of the islands. The
economy is service oriented with commerce, transport, tourism, and
public services accounting for about three-fourths of GDP. Although
nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas, the share of food
production in GDP is low. About 82% of food must be imported. The
fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited.
Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit financed by foreign
aid and remittances from its large pool of emigrants; remittances
supplement GDP by more than 20%. Despite the lack of resources,
sound economic management has produced steadily improving incomes.
Continued economic reforms are aimed at developing the private
sector and attracting foreign investment to diversify the economy.
Future prospects depend heavily on the maintenance of aid flows, the
encouragement of tourism, remittances, and the momentum of the
government's development program. Cape Verde became a member of the
WTO in July 2008.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$1.861 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186
$1.781 billion (2009 est.)

$1.749 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.573 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
1.8% (2009 est.)

5.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$3,700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160
$3,600 (2009 est.)

$3,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9%

industry: 16.2%

services: 74.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


196,100 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 169


Unemployment rate:


21% (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 168


Population below poverty line:


30% (2000)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.9%

highest 10%: 40.6% (2000)



Investment (gross fixed):


36.9% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74
1% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


7.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 54
7.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10.98% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92
9.99% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$585 million (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 155
$628.4 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.314 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
$1.399 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.179 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 146
$1.256 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes, sugarcane, coffee, peanuts;
fish



Industries:


food and beverages, fish processing, shoes and garments, salt
mining, ship repair



Industrial production growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Electricity - production:


250 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173


Electricity - consumption:


232.5 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Oil - consumption:


2,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143


Oil - imports:


1,619 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Current account balance:


-$286 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96
-$319 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$114 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190
$105 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


fuel, shoes, garments, fish, hides



Exports - partners:


Spain 53.98%, Portugal 22.23%, Morocco 7.13% (2009)



Imports:


$858 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175
$835 million (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, industrial products, transport equipment, fuels



Imports - partners:


Portugal 44.86%, Netherlands 15.51%, Spain 6.1%, Italy 4.46%, Brazil
4.21% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$296 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124
$284 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$325 million (2002)
country comparison to the world: 169


Exchange rates:


Cape Verdean escudos (CVE) per US dollar - 88.58 (2010), 79.377
(2009), 73.84 (2008), 81.235 (2007), 87.946 (2006)







Communications ::Cape Verde




Telephones - main lines in use:


72,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 153


Telephones - mobile cellular:


392,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 165


Telephone system:


general assessment: effective system, extensive modernization from
1996-2000 following partial privatization in 1995

domestic: major service provider is Cabo Verde Telecom (CVT);
fiber-optic ring, completed in 2001, links all islands providing
Internet access and ISDN services; cellular service introduced in
1998; broadband services launched in 2004

international: country code - 238; landing point for the Atlantis-2
fiber-optic transatlantic telephone cable that provides links to
South America, Senegal, and Europe; HF radiotelephone to Senegal and
Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)
(2007)



Broadcast media:


state-run TV and radio broadcast network plus a growing number of
private broadcasters; Portuguese public TV and radio services for
Africa are available; transmissions of a few international
broadcasters are obtainable (2007)



Internet country code:


.cv



Internet hosts:


26 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 215


Internet users:


150,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 148






Transportation ::Cape Verde




Airports:


10 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 156


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 9

over 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 1,350 km
country comparison to the world: 178
paved: 932 km

unpaved: 418 km (2000)



Merchant marine:


total: 13
country comparison to the world: 104
by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 3, passenger/cargo 7

foreign-owned: 3 (Spain 1, UK 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Porto Grande







Military ::Cape Verde




Military branches:


People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP): Army, Coast Guard
(includes maritime air wing) (2007)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age (est.) for selective compulsory military service;
14-month conscript service obligation (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 128,858

females age 16-49: 133,581 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 103,894

females age 16-49: 114,721 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 6,077

female: 6,075 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.5% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 165






Transnational Issues ::Cape Verde




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


used as a transshipment point for Latin American cocaine destined
for Western Europe, particularly because of Lusophone links to
Brazil, Portugal, and Guinea-Bissau; has taken steps to deter drug
money laundering, including a 2002 anti-money laundering reform that
criminalizes laundering the proceeds of narcotics trafficking and
other crimes and the establishment in 2008 of a Financial
Intelligence Unit (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Cayman Islands  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Cayman Islands




Background:


The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the British during
the 18th and 19th centuries and were administered by Jamaica after
1863. In 1959, the islands became a territory within the Federation
of the West Indies. When the Federation dissolved in 1962, the
Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency.







Geography ::Cayman Islands




Location:


Caribbean, three-island group (Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, Little
Cayman) in Caribbean Sea, 240 km south of Cuba and 268 km northwest
of Jamaica



Geographic coordinates:


19 30 N, 80 30 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 264 sq km
country comparison to the world: 210
land: 264 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


1.5 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


160 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and cool,
relatively dry winters (November to April)



Terrain:


low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: The Bluff on Cayman Brac 43 m



Natural resources:


fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism



Land use:


arable land: 3.85%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 96.15% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


hurricanes (July to November)



Environment - current issues:


no natural fresh water resources; drinking water supplies must be
met by rainwater catchments



Geography - note:


important location between Cuba and Central America







People ::Cayman Islands




Population:


50,209
country comparison to the world: 206
note: most of the population lives on Grand Cayman (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 19.6% (male 4,824/female 4,783)

15-64 years: 71.1% (male 16,994/female 17,884)

65 years and over: 9.3% (male 2,139/female 2,411) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 38.4 years

male: 38 years

female: 38.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.338% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Birth rate:


12.29 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


Death rate:


5 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Net migration rate:


16.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 2
note: major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US (2010
est.)



Urbanization:


urban population: 100% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.016 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female

total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 6.78 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 169
male: 7.77 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 5.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 80.57 years
country comparison to the world: 20
male: 77.91 years

female: 83.27 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.88 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Caymanian(s)

adjective: Caymanian



Ethnic groups:


mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of various ethnic
groups 20%



Religions:


Church of God 25.5%, Roman Catholic 12.6%, Presbyterian / United
Church 9.2%, Seventh Day Adventist 8.4%, Baptist 8.3%, Pentecostal
6.7%, Anglican 3.9%, other religions 4%, non-denominational 5.7%,
other 6.5%, none 6.1%, unspecified 3.2% (2007)



Languages:


English (official) 95%, Spanish 3.2%, other 1.8% (1999 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population: 98%

male: 98%

female: 98% (1970 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 13 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


2.6% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 161






Government ::Cayman Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Cayman Islands



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: George Town (on Grand Cayman)

geographic coordinates: 19 18 N, 81 23 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland, South Town, Spot Bay, Stake
Bay, West End, Western



Independence:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



National holiday:


Constitution Day, first Monday in July



Constitution:


The Cayman Islands Constitution Order 2009, 6 November 2009



Legal system:


British common law and local statutes



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Duncan TAYLOR (since 15 January 2010)

head of government: Premier McKeeva BUSH (since 6 November 2009)

cabinet: The Cabinet (six members are appointed by the governor on
the advice of the premier, selected from among the elected members
of the Legislative Assembly)
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; the governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or coalition appointed by the governor as premier



Legislative branch:


unicameral Legislative Assembly (20 seats; 18 members elected by
popular vote and 2 ex officio members from The Cabinet; to serve
four-year terms)

elections: last held on 20 May 2009 (next to be held not later than
May 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
UDP 9, PPM 5, independent 1



Judicial branch:


Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of Appeal; Summary Court



Political parties and leaders:


People's Progressive Movement or PPM [Kurt TIBBETTS]; United
Democratic Party or UDP [McKeeva BUSH]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


National Trust

other: environmentalists



International organization participation:


Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, UNESCO
(associate), UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK); consular services provided
through the US Embassy in Jamaica



Flag description:


a blue field, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms centered on the outer half
of the flag; the coat of arms includes a crest with a pineapple,
representing the connection with Jamaica, and a turtle, representing
Cayman's seafaring tradition, above a shield bearing a golden lion,
symbolizing Great Britain, below which are three green stars
(representing the three islands) surmounting white and blue wavy
lines representing the sea and a scroll at the bottom bearing the
motto HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS



National anthem:


name: "Beloved Isle Cayman"

lyrics/music: Leila E. ROSS

note: adopted 1993; served as an unofficial anthem since 1930; as a
territory of the United Kingdom, in addition to the local anthem,
"God Save the Queen" is official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Cayman Islands




Economy - overview:


With no direct taxation, the islands are a thriving offshore
financial center. More than 93,000 companies were registered in the
Cayman Islands as of 2008, including almost 300 banks, 800 insurers,
and 10,000 mutual funds. A stock exchange was opened in 1997.
Tourism is also a mainstay, accounting for about 70% of GDP and 75%
of foreign currency earnings. The tourist industry is aimed at the
luxury market and caters mainly to visitors from North America.
Total tourist arrivals exceeded 1.9 million in 2008, with about half
from the US. About 90% of the islands' food and consumer goods must
be imported. The Caymanians enjoy one of the highest outputs per
capita and one of the highest standards of living in the world.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.25 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182
$2.23 billion (2003 est.)



GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.25 billion (2008 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.1% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176
0.9% (2004 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$43,800 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1.4%

industry: 3.2%

services: 95.4% (1994 est.)



Labor force:


39,000
country comparison to the world: 198
note: nearly 55% are non-nationals (2007)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 1.9%

industry: 19.1%

services: 79% (2008 est.)



Unemployment rate:


4% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 37
4.4% (2004)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4.1% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 121
4.4% (2004)



Stock of narrow money:


$334.3 million (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 165


Stock of broad money:


$5.564 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117




Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 109
$183.5 million (31 December 2007)

$188.4 million (31 December 2006)



Agriculture - products:


vegetables, fruit; livestock; turtle farming



Industries:


tourism, banking, insurance and finance, construction, construction
materials, furniture



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


546 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 156


Electricity - consumption:


507.8 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 161


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Oil - consumption:


3,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Oil - imports:


3,294 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 167


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Exports:


$13.8 million (2008)
country comparison to the world: 210
$2.52 million (2004)



Exports - commodities:


turtle products, manufactured consumer goods



Imports:


$876.5 million (2008)
country comparison to the world: 173
$866.9 million (2004)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, manufactured goods, fuels



Debt - external:


$70 million (1996)
country comparison to the world: 184


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA



Exchange rates:


Caymanian dollars (KYD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 0.8496 (2006)







Communications ::Cayman Islands




Telephones - main lines in use:


38,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 170


Telephones - mobile cellular:


33,800 (2004)
country comparison to the world: 201


Telephone system:


general assessment: reasonably good system

domestic: liberalization of telecom market in 2003; introduction of
competition in the mobile-cellular market in 2004

international: country code - 1-345; landing points for the MAYA-1,
Eastern Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS), and the Cayman-Jamaica Fiber
System submarine cables that provide links to the US and parts of
Central and South America; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (2007)



Broadcast media:


4 television stations; cable and satellite subscription services
offer a variety of international programming; government-owned Radio
Cayman operates 2 networks broadcasting on 5 stations; 10
privately-owned radio stations operate alongside Radio Cayman (2007)



Internet country code:


.ky



Internet hosts:


21,910 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 108


Internet users:


23,000 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 188






Transportation ::Cayman Islands




Airports:


3 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 193


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 785 km
country comparison to the world: 186
paved: 785 km (2007)



Merchant marine:


total: 113
country comparison to the world: 46
by type: bulk carrier 20, cargo 3, chemical tanker 56, liquefied gas
1, petroleum tanker 8, refrigerated cargo 10, vehicle carrier 15

foreign-owned: 99 (Germany 6, Greece 11, Italy 6, Japan 19,
Switzerland 1, UK 2, US 54) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Cayman Brac, George Town







Military ::Cayman Islands




Military branches:


no regular military forces; Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 12,108 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 9,860

females age 16-49: 10,287 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 326

female: 347 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK







Transnational Issues ::Cayman Islands




Disputes - international:


none



Illicit drugs:


major offshore financial center; vulnerable to drug transshipment to
the US and Europe (2008)









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Central African Republic  (Africa)

Introduction ::Central African Republic




Background:


The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari became the Central African
Republic upon independence in 1960. After three tumultuous decades
of misrule - mostly by military governments - civilian rule was
established in 1993 and lasted for one decade. President Ange-Felix
PATASSE's civilian government was plagued by unrest, and in March
2003 he was deposed in a military coup led by General Francois
BOZIZE, who established a transitional government. Though the
government has the tacit support of civil society groups and the
main parties, a wide field of candidates contested the municipal,
legislative, and presidential elections held in March and May of
2005 in which General BOZIZE was affirmed as president. The
government still does not fully control the countryside, where
pockets of lawlessness persist. Unrest in the neighboring nations of
Chad, Sudan, and the DRC continues to affect stability in the
Central African Republic as well.







Geography ::Central African Republic




Location:


Central Africa, north of Democratic Republic of the Congo



Geographic coordinates:


7 00 N, 21 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 622,984 sq km
country comparison to the world: 44
land: 622,984 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 5,203 km

border countries: Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Democratic
Republic of the Congo 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 467 km, Sudan
1,165 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot, wet summers



Terrain:


vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau; scattered hills in
northeast and southwest



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Oubangui River 335 m

highest point: Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m



Natural resources:


diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 3.1%

permanent crops: 0.15%

other: 96.75% (2005)



Irrigated land:


20 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


144.4 cu km (2003)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.03 cu km/yr (80%/16%/4%)

per capita: 7 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect northern areas; floods are
common



Environment - current issues:


tap water is not potable; poaching has diminished the country's
reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges;
desertification; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


landlocked; almost the precise center of Africa







People ::Central African Republic




Population:


4,844,927
country comparison to the world: 116
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 40.9% (male 928,277/female 917,739)

15-64 years: 55% (male 1,235,940/female 1,244,958)

65 years and over: 4.1% (male 71,439/female 113,135) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 19.1 years

male: 18.7 years

female: 19.5 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.149% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Birth rate:


36.79 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Death rate:


15.3 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 78


Urbanization:


urban population: 39% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 101.6 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 7
male: 109.65 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 93.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 49.68 years
country comparison to the world: 214
male: 48.45 years

female: 50.95 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


4.68 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


6.3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


160,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


11,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Central African(s)

adjective: Central African



Ethnic groups:


Baya 33%, Banda 27%, Mandjia 13%, Sara 10%, Mboum 7%, M'Baka 4%,
Yakoma 4%, other 2%



Religions:


indigenous beliefs 35%, Protestant 25%, Roman Catholic 25%, Muslim
15%

note: animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the
Christian majority



Languages:


French (official), Sangho (lingua franca and national language),
tribal languages



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 48.6%

male: 64.8%

female: 33.5% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 7 years

male: 8 years

female: 5 years (2009)



Education expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 179






Government ::Central African Republic




Country name:


conventional long form: Central African Republic

conventional short form: none

local long form: Republique Centrafricaine

local short form: none

former: Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire

abbreviation: CAR



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Bangui

geographic coordinates: 4 22 N, 18 35 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


14 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture), 2 economic
prefectures* (prefectures economiques, singular - prefecture
economique), and 1 commune**; Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**,
Basse-Kotto, Haute-Kotto, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo, Lobaye, Mambere-Kadei,
Mbomou, Nana-Grebizi*, Nana-Mambere, Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham,
Ouham-Pende, Sangha-Mbaere*, Vakaga



Independence:


13 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


Republic Day, 1 December (1958)



Constitution:


ratified by popular referendum 5 December 2004; effective 27
December 2004



Legal system:


based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


21 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Francois BOZIZE (since 15 March 2003 coup)

head of government: Prime Minister Faustin-Archange TOUADERA (since
22 January 2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: under the new constitution, the president elected for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); elections last held on
13 March and 8 May 2005 (next to be held on 23 January 2011); prime
minister appointed by the political party with a parliamentary
majority

election results: Francois BOZIZE elected president; percent of
second round balloting - Francois BOZIZE (KNK) 64.6%, Martin ZIGUELE
(MLPC) 35.4%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (105 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 13 March 2005 and 8 May 2005 (next to be
held on 23 January 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
KNK 42, MLPC 11, RDC 8, PSD 4, FPP 2, ADP 2, LONDO 1, independents
34, other 1



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court (three judges
appointed by the president, three by the president of the National
Assembly, and three by fellow judges); Court of Appeal; Criminal
Courts; Inferior Courts



Political parties and leaders:


Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP [Jacques MBOLIEDAS];
Central African Democratic Rally or RDC [Andre KOLINGBA]; Civic
Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA]; Democratic Forum for
Modernity or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLD
[Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Londo Association or LONDO; Movement for
Democracy and Development or MDD [David DACKO]; Movement for the
Liberation of the Central African People or MLPC [Ange-Felix
PATASSE] (the party of deposed president); National Convergence or
KNK; National Unity Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Patriotic
Front for Progress or FPP [Abel GOUMBA]; People's Union for the
Republic or UPR [Pierre Sammy MAKFOY]; Social Democratic Party or
PSD [Enoch LAKOUE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Monam (combating gender-base violence)



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(subscriber), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Stanislas MOUSSA-KEMBE

chancery: 1618 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 483-7800

FAX: [1] (202) 332-9893



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Frederick B. COOK

embassy: Avenue David Dacko, Bangui

mailing address: B. P. 924, Bangui

telephone: [236] 61 02 00

FAX: [236] 61 44 94

note: the embassy is currently operating with a minimal staff



Flag description:


four equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, green, and yellow
with a vertical red band in center; a yellow five-pointed star to
the hoist side of the blue band; banner combines the Pan-African and
French flag colors; red symbolizes the blood spilled in the struggle
for independence, blue represents the sky and freedom, white peace
and dignity, green hope and faith, and yellow tolerance; the star
represents aspiration towards a vibrant future



National anthem:


name: "Le Renaissance" (The Renaissance)

lyrics/music: Barthelemy BOGANDA/Herbert PEPPER

note: adopted 1960; Barthelemy BOGANDA, who wrote the anthem's
lyrics, was the first prime minister of the autonomous French
territory







Economy ::Central African Republic




Economy - overview:


Subsistence agriculture, together with forestry, remains the
backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic (CAR), with
about 60% of the population living in outlying areas. The
agricultural sector generates more than half of GDP. Timber has
accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the diamond industry,
for 40%. Important constraints to economic development include the
CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system, a largely
unskilled work force, and a legacy of misdirected macroeconomic
policies. Factional fighting between the government and its
opponents remains a drag on economic revitalization. Distribution of
income is extraordinarily unequal. Grants from France and the
international community can only partially meet humanitarian needs.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$3.468 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171
$3.345 billion (2009 est.)

$3.289 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.113 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92
1.7% (2009 est.)

2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 222
$700 (2009 est.)

$700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 55%

industry: 20%

services: 25% (2001 est.)



Labor force:


1.926 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 121


Unemployment rate:


8% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90
note: 23% unemployment for Bangui



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.1%

highest 10%: 33% (2003)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


61.3 (1993)
country comparison to the world: 6


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


0.9% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 92
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$288.8 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 167
$241.3 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$343.4 million (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177
$292.9 million (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$357.6 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 167
$339.1 million (31 December 2008)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc (tapioca), yams, millet,
corn, bananas; timber



Industries:


gold and diamond mining, logging, brewing, textiles, footwear,
assembly of bicycles and motorcycles



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2002)
country comparison to the world: 107


Electricity - production:


115 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Electricity - consumption:


107 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Oil - consumption:


2,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144


Oil - imports:


2,203 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Current account balance:


-$77 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Exports:


$146.7 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Exports - commodities:


diamonds, timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco



Exports - partners:


Belgium 32.57%, China 10.49%, Indonesia 10.36%, Morocco 10.24%,
Democratic Republic of the Congo 6.87%, France 5.79% (2009)



Imports:


$237.3 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Imports - commodities:


food, textiles, petroleum products, machinery, electrical equipment,
motor vehicles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals



Imports - partners:


South Korea 19.29%, France 11.95%, US 7.78%, Cameroon 7.39%,
Netherlands 6.77% (2009)



Debt - external:


$1.153 billion (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


Exchange rates:


Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 506.04 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 481.8 (2007), 522.59 (2006)

note: since 1 January 1999, the Central African CFA franc (XAF) has
been pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 CFA francs per euro;
Central African CFA franc (XAF) coins and banknotes are not accepted
in countries using West African CFA francs (XOF), and vice versa,
even though the two currencies trade at par







Communications ::Central African Republic




Telephones - main lines in use:


12,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 199


Telephones - mobile cellular:


168,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 174


Telephone system:


general assessment: network consists principally of microwave radio
relay and low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication

domestic: limited telephone service with less than 1 fixed-line
connection per 100 persons; spurred by the presence of multiple
mobile-cellular service providers, cellular usage is increasing from
a low base; most fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone services
are concentrated in Bangui

international: country code - 236; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2008)



Broadcast media:


government-owned network, Radiodiffusion Television Centrafricaine,
provides domestic TV broadcasting; licenses for 2 private TV
stations are pending; state-owned radio network is supplemented by a
small number of privately-owned broadcast stations as well as a few
community radio stations; transmissions of at least 2 international
broadcasters are available (2007)



Internet country code:


.cf



Internet hosts:


20 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 217


Internet users:


22,600 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 191






Transportation ::Central African Republic




Airports:


37 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 106


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 35

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 12

914 to 1,523 m: 16

under 914 m: 6 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 24,307 km (2000)
country comparison to the world: 105


Waterways:


2,800 km (the primary navigable river is the Ubangi, which joins the
River Congo; it was the traditional route for the export of products
because it connected with the Congo-Ocean railway at Brazzaville;
because of the warfare on both sides of the River Congo from 1997,
however, routes through Cameroon became preferred by importers and
exporters) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 35


Ports and terminals:


Bangui, Nola, Salo, Nzinga







Military ::Central African Republic




Military branches:


Central African Armed Forces (Forces Armees Centrafricaines, FACA):
Ground Forces (includes Military Air Service), General Directorate
of Gendarmerie Inspection (DGIG), National Police (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for selective military service; 2-year conscript
service obligation (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,121,548

females age 16-49: 1,118,432 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 637,474

females age 16-49: 643,188 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 54,024

female: 53,203 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.9% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 136






Transnational Issues ::Central African Republic




Disputes - international:


periodic skirmishes over water and grazing rights among related
pastoral populations along the border with southern Sudan persist



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 7,900 (Sudan); 3,700 (Democratic
Republic of the Congo); note - UNHCR resumed repatriation of
Southern Sudanese refugees in 2006

IDPs: 197,000 (ongoing unrest following coup in 2003) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Central African Republic is a source, transit,
and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for
the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority
of victims are children trafficked within the country for sexual
exploitation, domestic servitude, street vending, and forced
agricultural, mine, market and restaurant labor; to a lesser extent,
children are trafficked from the Central African Republic to
Cameroon, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo; rebels
conscript children into armed forces within the country

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Central African Republic is on the
Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for its failure to
show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in 2007;
efforts to address trafficking through vigorous law enforcement
measures and victim protection efforts were minimal, though
awareness about trafficking appeared to be increasing in the
country; the government does not actively investigate cases, work to
identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, or rescue
and provide care to victims; the government has not taken measures
to reduce demand for commercial sex acts (2008)









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Chad  (Africa)

Introduction ::Chad




Background:


Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960, endured three
decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before a
semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The government
eventually drafted a democratic constitution and held flawed
presidential elections in 1996 and 2001. In 1998, a rebellion broke
out in northern Chad, which has sporadically flared up despite
several peace agreements between the government and the rebels. In
2005, new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing
attacks into eastern Chad despite signing peace agreements in
December 2006 and October 2007. Power remains in the hands of an
ethnic minority. In June 2005, President Idriss DEBY held a
referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won
another controversial election in 2006. Sporadic rebel campaigns
continued throughout 2006 and 2007. The capital experienced a
significant rebel threat in early 2008.







Geography ::Chad




Location:


Central Africa, south of Libya



Geographic coordinates:


15 00 N, 19 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 1.284 million sq km
country comparison to the world: 21
land: 1,259,200 sq km

water: 24,800 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly more than three times the size of California



Land boundaries:


total: 5,968 km

border countries: Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197
km, Libya 1,055 km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


tropical in south, desert in north



Terrain:


broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in
northwest, lowlands in south



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Djourab 160 m

highest point: Emi Koussi 3,415 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad), gold,
limestone, sand and gravel, salt



Land use:


arable land: 2.8%

permanent crops: 0.02%

other: 97.18% (2005)



Irrigated land:


300 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


43 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.23 cu km/yr (17%/0%/83%)

per capita: 24 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north; periodic droughts;
locust plagues



Environment - current issues:


inadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal in
rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution; desertification



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping



Geography - note:


landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant water body in the Sahel







People ::Chad




Population:


10,543,464 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Age structure:


0-14 years: 46.7% (male 2,445,841/female 2,381,319)

15-64 years: 50.4% (male 2,386,428/female 2,816,050)

65 years and over: 2.9% (male 126,351/female 173,219) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.6 years

male: 15.5 years

female: 17.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.038% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Birth rate:


40.12 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Death rate:


15.79 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Net migration rate:


-3.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Urbanization:


urban population: 27% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.85 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female

total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 97.05 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 9
male: 103 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 90.87 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 47.99 years
country comparison to the world: 217
male: 46.95 years

female: 49.07 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


5.18 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


200,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


14,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Chadian(s)

adjective: Chadian



Ethnic groups:


Sara 27.7%, Arab 12.3%, Mayo-Kebbi 11.5%, Kanem-Bornou 9%, Ouaddai
8.7%, Hadjarai 6.7%, Tandjile 6.5%, Gorane 6.3%, Fitri-Batha 4.7%,
other 6.4%, unknown 0.3% (1993 census)



Religions:


Muslim 53.1%, Catholic 20.1%, Protestant 14.2%, animist 7.3%, other
0.5%, unknown 1.7%, atheist 3.1% (1993 census)



Languages:


French (official), Arabic (official), Sara (in south), more than 120
different languages and dialects



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write French or Arabic

total population: 25.7%

male: 40.8%

female: 12.8% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 6 years

male: 8 years

female: 4 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


1.9% of GDP (2005)
country comparison to the world: 173






Government ::Chad




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Chad

conventional short form: Chad

local long form: Republique du Tchad/Jumhuriyat Tshad

local short form: Tchad/Tshad



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: N'Djamena

geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 15 02 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


22 regions (regions, singular - region); Barh el Gazel, Batha,
Borkou, Chari-Baguirmi, Ennedi, Guera, Hadjer-Lamis, Kanem, Lac,
Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Mandoul, Mayo-Kebbi Est,
Mayo-Kebbi Ouest, Moyen-Chari, Ouaddai, Salamat, Sila, Tandjile,
Tibesti, Ville de N'Djamena, Wadi Fira



Independence:


11 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 11 August (1960)



Constitution:


passed by referendum 31 March 1996; a June 2005 referendum removed
constitutional term limits



Legal system:


based on French civil law system and Chadian customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno (since 4
December 1990)

head of government: Prime Minister Emmanuel NADINGAR (since 5 March
2010)

cabinet: Council of State; members are appointed by the president on
the recommendation of the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
if no candidate receives at least 50% of the total vote, the two
candidates receiving the most votes must stand for a second round of
voting; last election held on 3 May 2006 (next to be held by May
2011); prime minister appointed by the president

election results: Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno reelected president;
percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY 64.7%, Delwa Kassire
KOUMAKOYE 15.1%, Albert Pahimi PADACKE 7.8%, Mahamat ABDOULAYE 7.1%,
Brahim KOULAMALLAH 5.3%; note - a June 2005 national referendum
altered the constitution removing presidential term limits and
permitting Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno to run for reelection



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly (155 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms); note - the 1996 constitution called
for a Senate that has never been formed

elections: National Assembly - last held on 21 April 2002 (next to
be held by February 2011); note - legislative elections, originally
scheduled for 2006, were first delayed by National Assembly action
and subsequently by an accord, signed in August 2007, between
government and opposition parties

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MPS 110, RDP 12, FAR 9, RNDP 5, UNDR 5, URD 3, other 11



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Magistrate Courts



Political parties and leaders:


Federation Action for the Republic or FAR [Ngarledjy YORONGAR];
National Rally for Development and Progress or RNDP [Delwa Kassire
KOUMAKOYE]; National Union for Democracy and Renewal or UNDR [Saleh
KEBZABO]; Party for Liberty and Development or PLD [Ibni Oumar
Mahamat SALEH]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS [Mahamat Saleh
AHMAT, chairman]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Lol
Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal and Democracy or URD [Gen. Wadal
Abdelkader KAMOUGUE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


rebel groups



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Mahamat Adam BECHIR

chancery: 2401 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 462-4009

FAX: [1] (202) 265-1937



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Louis NIGRO

embassy: Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena

mailing address: B. P. 413, N'Djamena

telephone: [235] 251-62-11, 251-70-09, 251-77-59

FAX: [235] 251-56-54



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red;
the flag combines the blue and red French (former colonial) colors
with the red and yellow of the Pan-African colors; blue symbolizes
the sky, hope, and the south of the country, which is relatively
well-watered; yellow represents the sun, as well as the desert in
the north of the country; red stands for progress, unity, and
sacrifice

note: similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the flags of
Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of arms
centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of France



National anthem:


name: "La Tchadienne" (The Chadian)

lyrics/music: Louis GIDROL and his students/Paul VILLARD

note: adopted 1960







Economy ::Chad




Economy - overview:


Chad's primarily agricultural economy will continue to be boosted by
major foreign direct investment projects in the oil sector that
began in 2000. At least 80% of Chad's population relies on
subsistence farming and livestock raising for its livelihood. Chad's
economy has long been handicapped by its landlocked position, high
energy costs, and a history of instability. Chad relies on foreign
assistance and foreign capital for most public and private sector
investment projects. A consortium led by two US companies has been
investing $3.7 billion to develop oil reserves - estimated at 1
billion barrels - in southern Chad. Chinese companies are also
expanding exploration efforts and are currently building a 300-km
pipleline and the country's first refinery. The nation's total oil
reserves are estimated at 1.5 billion barrels. Oil production came
on stream in late 2003. Chad began to export oil in 2004. Cotton,
cattle, and gum arabic provide the bulk of Chad's non-oil export
earnings.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$18.56 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128
$18.2 billion (2009 est.)

$18.49 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$7.592 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148
-1.6% (2009 est.)

10.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192
$1,800 (2009 est.)

$1,800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 50.5%

industry: 7%

services: 42.5% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


4.293 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 83


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 80% (subsistence farming, herding, and fishing)

industry and services: 20% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA% est.)



Population below poverty line:


80% (2001 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.6%

highest 10%: 30.8% (2003)



Investment (gross fixed):


14.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
10% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 93
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$920.9 million (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 139
$937.8 million (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$1.257 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154
$1.008 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$943.8 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
$566.9 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca);
cattle, sheep, goats, camels



Industries:


oil, cotton textiles, meatpacking, brewing, natron (sodium
carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Electricity - production:


100 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Electricity - consumption:


93 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


115,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Oil - exports:


157,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Oil - imports:


1,571 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179


Oil - proved reserves:


1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Current account balance:


-$2.6 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163
-$2.305 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$3.036 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123
$2.709 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


oil, cattle, cotton, gum arabic



Exports - partners:


US 90.06%, France 4.81%, China 1.6% (2009)



Imports:


$2.631 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143
$2.539 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and transportation equipment, industrial goods,
foodstuffs, textiles



Imports - partners:


France 17.74%, Cameroon 12.7%, China 11.23%, US 7.59%, Italy 6.54%,
Ukraine 5.33%, Netherlands 4.37% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$868 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
$685 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$1.749 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA (31 December 2010)

$4.5 billion (2006 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA



Exchange rates:


Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale francs 506.04 (2010),
472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 480.1 (2007), 522.59 (2006)







Communications ::Chad




Telephones - main lines in use:


13,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 198


Telephones - mobile cellular:


2.686 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 119


Telephone system:


general assessment: inadequate system of radiotelephone
communication stations with high costs and low telephone density

domestic: fixed-line connections for only about 1 per 1000 persons
coupled with mobile-cellular subscribership base of only about 25
per 100 persons

international: country code - 235; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


1 state-owned TV broadcast station; state-owned radio network,
Radiodiffusion Nationale Tchadienne (RNT), operates national and
regional stations; about 10 private radio stations; some stations
rebroadcast programs from international broadcasters (2007)



Internet country code:


.td



Internet hosts:


5 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 226


Internet users:


168,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 145






Transportation ::Chad




Airports:


56 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 83


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 8

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 48

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 15

914 to 1,523 m: 21

under 914 m: 10 (2010)



Pipelines:


oil 250 km (2009)



Roadways:


total: 33,400 km
country comparison to the world: 96
paved: 267 km

unpaved: 33,133 km (2002)



Waterways:


Chari and Legone rivers are navigable only in wet season (2010)







Military ::Chad




Military branches:


Armed Forces: Chadian National Army (Armee Nationale du Tchad, ANT),
Chadian Air Force (Force Aerienne Tchadienne, FAT), Gendarmerie
(2008)



Military service age and obligation:


20 years of age for conscripts, with 3-year service obligation; 18
years of age for volunteers; no minimum age restriction for
volunteers with consent from a guardian; women are subject to 1 year
of compulsory military or civic service at age of 21 (2004)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,025,929

females age 16-49: 2,377,898 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,141,776

females age 16-49: 1,354,111 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 125,073

female: 125,069 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.7% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 89






Transnational Issues ::Chad




Disputes - international:


since 2003, Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military have
driven hundreds of thousands of Darfur residents into Chad; Chad
remains an important mediator in the Sudanese civil conflict,
reducing tensions with Sudan arising from cross-border banditry;
Chadian Aozou rebels reside in southern Libya; only Nigeria and
Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify
the delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and
Niger-Nigeria boundaries



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 234,000 (Sudan); 54,200 (Central
African Republic)

IDPs: 178,918 (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Chad is a source, transit, and destination
country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of children are
trafficked within Chad for involuntary domestic servitude, forced
cattle herding, forced begging, forced labor in petty commerce or
the fishing industry, or for commercial sexual exploitation; to a
lesser extent, Chadian children are also trafficked to Cameroon, the
Central African Republic, and Nigeria for cattle herding; children
may also be trafficked from Cameroon and the Central African
Republic to Chad's oil producing regions for sexual exploitation

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - the Government of Chad does not
fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of
trafficking and is not making any significant efforts to do so;
although facing resource constraints, the government has the
capacity to conduct basic anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts,
yet did not do so during the last year; it showed no results in
enforcing government policy prohibiting the recruitment of child
soldiers; Chad has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2009)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Chile  (South America)

Introduction ::Chile




Background:


Prior to the coming of the Spanish in the 16th century, northern
Chile was under Inca rule while the indigenous Mapuche inhabited
central and southern Chile. Although Chile declared its independence
in 1810, decisive victory over the Spanish was not achieved until
1818. In the War of the Pacific (1879-83), Chile defeated Peru and
Bolivia and won its present northern regions. It was not until the
1880s that the Mapuche Indians were completely subjugated. After a
series of elected governments, a three-year-old Marxist government
of Salvador ALLENDE was overthrown in 1973 by a military coup led by
Augusto PINOCHET, who ruled until a freely elected president was
installed in 1990. Sound economic policies, maintained consistently
since the 1980s, have contributed to steady growth, reduced poverty
rates by over half, and have helped secure the country's commitment
to democratic and representative government. Chile has increasingly
assumed regional and international leadership roles befitting its
status as a stable, democratic nation.







Geography ::Chile




Location:


Southern South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean, between
Argentina and Peru



Geographic coordinates:


30 00 S, 71 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 756,102 sq km
country comparison to the world: 38
land: 743,812 sq km

water: 12,290 sq km

note: includes Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Isla Sala y Gomez



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana



Land boundaries:


total: 6,339 km

border countries: Argentina 5,308 km, Bolivia 860 km, Peru 171 km



Coastline:


6,435 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200/350 nm



Climate:


temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region; cool
and damp in south



Terrain:


low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes in east



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Nevado Ojos del Salado 6,880 m



Natural resources:


copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, molybdenum,
hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 2.62%

permanent crops: 0.43%

other: 96.95% (2005)



Irrigated land:


19,000 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


922 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 12.55 cu km/yr (11%/25%/64%)

per capita: 770 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


severe earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis

volcanism: Chile experiences significant volcanic activity due to
the more than three-dozen active volcanoes situated within the Andes
Mountains; Lascar (elev. 5,592 m, 18,346 ft), which last erupted in
2007, is the most active volcano in the northern Chilean Andes;
Llaima (elev. 3,125 m, 10,253 ft) in central Chile, which last
erupted in 2009, is another of the country's most active; Chaiten's
2008 eruption forced major evacuations; other notable historically
active volcanoes include Cerro Hudson, Copahue, Guallatiri,
Llullaillaco, Nevados de Chillan, San Pedro, and Villarrica



Environment - current issues:


widespread deforestation and mining threaten natural resources; air
pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution
from raw sewage



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage);
Atacama Desert is one of world's driest regions







People ::Chile




Population:


16,746,491 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Age structure:


0-14 years: 23.2% (male 1,966,017/female 1,877,963)

15-64 years: 67.8% (male 5,625,963/female 5,628,146)

65 years and over: 9.1% (male 627,746/female 875,872) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 31.7 years

male: 30.7 years

female: 32.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.856% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134


Birth rate:


14.46 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144


Death rate:


5.9 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 77


Urbanization:


urban population: 88% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 7.52 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 164
male: 8.29 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 6.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.53 years
country comparison to the world: 56
male: 74.26 years

female: 80.96 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.9 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


31,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 70


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


1,100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Nationality:


noun: Chilean(s)

adjective: Chilean



Ethnic groups:


white and white-Amerindian 95.4%, Mapuche 4%, other indigenous
groups 0.6% (2002 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 70%, Evangelical 15.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.1%, other
Christian 1%, other 4.6%, none 8.3% (2002 census)



Languages:


Spanish (official), Mapudungun, German, English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 95.7%

male: 95.8%

female: 95.6% (2002 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 15 years

male: 15 years

female: 14 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


3.4% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 135






Government ::Chile




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Chile

conventional short form: Chile

local long form: Republica de Chile

local short form: Chile



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Santiago

geographic coordinates: 33 27 S, 70 40 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends
second Sunday in March

note: the Chilean Government announced on 4 March 2010 that the end
of DST would be delayed until 4 April 2010 providing respite to
those affected by the 8.8 magnitude earthquake of February 2010



Administrative divisions:


15 regions (regiones, singular - region); Aisen del General Carlos
Ibanez del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania, Arica y Parinacota,
Atacama, Biobio, Coquimbo, Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins,
Los Lagos, Los Rios, Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena, Maule,
Region Metropolitana (Santiago), Tarapaca, Valparaiso

note: the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica



Independence:


18 September 1810 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 18 September (1810)



Constitution:


11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981; amended 1989, 1991,
1997, 1999, 2000, 2003, and 2005



Legal system:


based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and subsequent codes
influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction; note - in June 2005, Chile completed overhaul of
its criminal justice system to a US-style adversarial system



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Sebastian PINERA Echenique (since 11 March
2010); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Sebastian PINERA Echenique (since 11
March 2010)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a single four-year
term; election last held on 13 December 2009 with runoff election
held on 17 January 2010 (next to be held in December 2013)

election results: Sebastian PINERA Echenique elected president;
percent of vote - Sebastian PINERA Echenique 51.6%; Eduardo FREI
48.4%



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate or Senado (38 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
eight-year terms; one-half elected every four years) and the Chamber
of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (120 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 13 December 2009 (next to be held
in December 2013); Chamber of Deputies - last held on 13 December
2009 (next to be held in December 2013)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - CPD 9 (PDC 4, PPD 3, PS 2), APC 9 (RN 6, UDI 3); Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - CC 58
(UDI 37, RN 18, other 3), CPD 57 (PDC 19, PPD 18, PS 11, PRSD 5, PC
3, other 1), PRI 3, independent 2



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the
president and ratified by the Senate from lists of candidates
provided by the court itself; the president of the Supreme Court is
elected every three years by the 20-member court); Constitutional
Tribunal (eight-members - two each from the Senate, Chamber of
Deputies, Supreme Court, and National Security Council - review the
constitutionality of laws approved by Congress)



Political parties and leaders:


Broad Social Movement or MAS; Clean Chile Vote Happy or CLVF
(including Broad Social Movement, Country Force, and Regionalist
Party of Independents or PRI); Coalition for Change or CC (formerly
known as the Alliance for Chile (Alianza) or APC) (including
National Renewal or RN [Carlos LARRAIN Pena], Independent Democratic
Union or UDI [Juan Antonio COLOMA Correa], and Chile First [Vlado
MIROSEVIC]); Coalition of Parties for Democracy (Concertacion) or
CPD (including Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Ignacio WALKER],
Party for Democracy or PPD [Carolina TOHA Morales], Radical Social
Democratic Party or PRSD [Jose Antonio GOMEZ Urrutia], and Socialist
Party or PS [Osvaldo ANDRADE]); Partido Ecologista del Sur; Together
We Can Do More (including Communist Party or PC [Guillermo TEILLIER
del Valle], and Humanist Party or PH [Danilo MONTEVERDE])



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Roman Catholic Church, particularly conservative groups such as Opus
Dei; United Labor Central or CUT includes trade unionists from the
country's five largest labor confederations

other: revitalized university student federations at all major
universities



International organization participation:


APEC, BIS, CAN (associate), CD, FAO, G-15, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA,
Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS, OECD, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, RG, SICA (observer), UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP,
UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Arturo FERNANDOIS Vohringer

chancery: 1732 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone: [1] (202) 785-1746

FAX: [1] (202) 887-5579

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Alejandro D. WOLFF

embassy: Avenida Andres Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago

mailing address: APO AA 34033

telephone: [56] (2) 330-3000

FAX: [56] (2) 330-3710, 330-3160



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; a blue square the
same height as the white band at the hoist-side end of the white
band; the square bears a white five-pointed star in the center
representing a guide to progress and honor; blue symbolizes the sky,
white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red represents the blood
spilled to achieve independence

note: design was influenced by the US flag



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional de Chile" (National Anthem of Chile)

lyrics/music: Eusebio LILLO Robles and Bernardo DE VERA y
Pintado/Ramon CARNICER y Battle

note: music adopted 1828, original lyrics adopted 1818, adapted
lyrics adopted 1847; under Augusto PINOCHET"s military rule, a verse
glorifying the army was added; however, as a protest, some citizens
refused to sing this verse; it was removed when democracy was
restored in 1990







Economy ::Chile




Economy - overview:


Chile has a market-oriented economy characterized by a high level of
foreign trade and a reputation for strong financial institutions and
sound policy that have given it the strongest sovereign bond rating
in South America. Exports account for more than one-fourth of GDP,
with commodities making up some three-quarters of total exports.
Copper alone provides one-third of government revenue. During the
early 1990s, Chile's reputation as a role model for economic reform
was strengthened when the democratic government of Patricio AYLWIN -
which took over from the military in 1990 - deepened the economic
reform initiated by the military government. Growth in real GDP
averaged 8% during 1991-97, but fell to half that level in 1998
because of tight monetary policies implemented to keep the current
account deficit in check and because of lower export earnings - the
latter a product of the global financial crisis. A severe drought
exacerbated the situation in 1999, reducing crop yields and causing
hydroelectric shortfalls and electricity rationing, and Chile
experienced negative economic growth for the first time in more than
15 years. In the years since then, growth has averaged 4% per year.
Chile deepened its longstanding commitment to trade liberalization
with the signing of a free trade agreement with the US, which took
effect on 1 January 2004. Chile claims to have more bilateral or
regional trade agreements than any other country. It has 57 such
agreements (not all of them full free trade agreements), including
with the European Union, Mercosur, China, India, South Korea, and
Mexico. Over the past seven years, foreign direct investment inflows
have quadrupled to some $15 billion in 2010, but FDI had dropped to
about $7 billion in 2009 in the face of diminished investment
throughout the world. The Chilean government conducts a rule-based
countercyclical fiscal policy, accumulating surpluses in sovereign
wealth funds during periods of high copper prices and economic
growth, and allowing deficit spending only during periods of low
copper prices and growth. As of September 2008, those sovereign
wealth funds - kept mostly outside the country and separate from
Central Bank reserves - amounted to more than $20 billion. Chile
used $4 billion from this fund to finance a fiscal stimulus package
to fend off recession. In December 2009, the OECD invited Chile to
become a full member, after a two year period of compliance with
organization mandates. The economy started to show signs of a
rebound in the fourth quarter, 2009, and GDP grew more than 5% in
2010. The magnitude 8.8 earthquake that struck Chile in February
2010 was one of the top ten strongest earthquakes on record. It
caused considerable damage near the epicenter, located about 70
miles from Concepcion - and about 200 miles southwest of Santiago.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$260 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$246.9 billion (2009 est.)

$250.6 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$199.2 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


5.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48
-1.5% (2009 est.)

3.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$15,500 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
$14,900 (2009 est.)

$15,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 5.6%

industry: 40.5%

services: 53.9% (2009 est.)



Labor force:


7.58 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 13.2%

industry: 23%

services: 63.9% (2005)



Unemployment rate:


8.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100
9.6% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


18.2% (2005)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.6%

highest 10%: 41.7% (2006)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


54.9 (2003)
country comparison to the world: 14
57.1 (2000)



Investment (gross fixed):


23.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52


Public debt:


6.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126
6.1% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
1.5% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


0.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 52
8.25% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


7.25% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
13.26% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$29.81 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 57
$23.68 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$160.3 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 45
$127.5 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$153.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41
$133.7 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$209.5 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 29
$132.4 billion (31 December 2008)

$212.9 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


grapes, apples, pears, onions, wheat, corn, oats, peaches, garlic,
asparagus, beans; beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber



Industries:


copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing, iron and steel,
wood and wood products, transport equipment, cement, textiles



Industrial production growth rate:


3.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Electricity - production:


60.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Electricity - consumption:


57.29 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


1.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


10,850 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Oil - consumption:


277,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47


Oil - exports:


49,250 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Oil - imports:


311,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Oil - proved reserves:


150 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Natural gas - production:


1.65 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Natural gas - consumption:


2.34 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Natural gas - imports:


690 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Natural gas - proved reserves:


97.97 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53


Current account balance:


$1.033 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
$4.217 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$64.28 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
$53.74 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


copper, fruit, fish products, paper and pulp, chemicals, wine



Exports - partners:


China 16.46%, US 11.31%, Japan 9.06%, South Korea 6.49%, Brazil
4.64%, Mexico 4.09% (2009)



Imports:


$54.23 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$39.75 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, electrical and
telecommunications equipment, industrial machinery, vehicles,
natural gas



Imports - partners:


US 21.77%, China 12.76%, Argentina 9.55%, Brazil 6.46%, South Korea
5.35% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$26.08 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37
$25.29 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$84.51 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40
$72.76 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$136.3 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26
$121.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$51.15 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33
$41.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Chilean pesos (CLP) per US dollar - 525.34 (2010), 560.86 (2009),
509.02 (2008), 526.25 (2007), 530.29 (2006)







Communications ::Chile




Telephones - main lines in use:


3.575 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 43


Telephones - mobile cellular:


16.45 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 44


Telephone system:


general assessment: privatization begun in 1988; most advanced
telecommunications infrastructure in South America; modern system
based on extensive microwave radio relay facilities; domestic
satellite system with 3 earth stations

domestic: number of fixed-line connections have stagnated in recent
years as mobile-cellular usage continues to increase, reaching a
level of 100 telephones per 100 persons

international: country code - 56; landing points for the Pan
American, South America-1, and South American Crossing/Latin America
Nautilius submarine cables providing links to the US and to Central
and South America; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


national and local terrestrial television channels, coupled with
extensive cable TV networks; the state-owned Television Nacional de
Chile (TVN) network is self-financed through commercial advertising
revenues and is not under direct government control; large number of
privately-owned TV stations; about 250 radio stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.cl



Internet hosts:


1.056 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 43


Internet users:


7.009 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 39






Transportation ::Chile




Airports:


366 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 22


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 84

over 3,047 m: 5

2,438 to 3,047 m: 8

1,524 to 2,437 m: 23

914 to 1,523 m: 24

under 914 m: 24 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 282

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 12

914 to 1,523 m: 50

under 914 m: 217 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,673 km; liquid petroleum gas 519 km; oil 892 km; refined
products 769 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 5,483 km
country comparison to the world: 34
broad gauge: 1,706 km 1.676-m gauge (850 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 3,777 km 1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 80,505 km
country comparison to the world: 59
paved: 16,745 km (includes 2,414 km of expressways)

unpaved: 63,760 km (2004)



Merchant marine:


total: 48
country comparison to the world: 71
by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 10, chemical tanker 8, container 1,
liquefied gas 2, passenger 4, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 8,
roll on/roll off 1

foreign-owned: 1 (Norway 1)

registered in other countries: 48 (Argentina 6, Belize 1, Brazil 1,
Cyprus 1, Isle of Man 8, Liberia 7, Panama 17, Singapore 7) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Coronel, Huasco, Lirquen, Puerto Ventanas, San Antonio, San Vicente,
Valparaiso







Military ::Chile




Military branches:


Army of the Nation, Chilean Navy (Armada de Chile, includes Naval
Aviation, Marine Corps, and Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine
Directorate (Directemar)), Chilean Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de Chile,
FACh), Carabineros Corps (Cuerpo de Carabineros) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-45 years of age for voluntary male and female military service,
although the right to compulsory recruitment is retained; service
obligation - 12 months for Army, 22 months for Navy and Air Force
(2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 4,301,900

females age 16-49: 4,232,956 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,599,328

females age 16-49: 3,544,156 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 143,778

female: 138,058 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.7% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 52






Transnational Issues ::Chile




Disputes - international:


Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reinvigorated claim to restore the
Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile has offered
instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile
to Bolivian gas and other commodities; Chile rejects Peru's
unilateral legislation to change its latitudinal maritime boundary
with Chile to an equidistance line with a southwestern axis favoring
Peru, in October 2007, Peru took its maritime complaint with Chile
to the ICJ; territorial claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic
Territory) partially overlaps Argentine and British claims; the
joint boundary commission, established by Chile and Argentina in
2001, has yet to map and demarcate the delimited boundary in the
inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de Hielo Sur)



Illicit drugs:


transshipment country for cocaine destined for Europe and the
region; some money laundering activity, especially through the
Iquique Free Trade Zone; imported precursors passed on to Bolivia;
domestic cocaine consumption is rising, making Chile a significant
consumer of cocaine (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@China  (East & Southeast Asia)

Introduction ::China




Background:


For centuries China stood as a leading civilization, outpacing the
rest of the world in the arts and sciences, but in the 19th and
early 20th centuries, the country was beset by civil unrest, major
famines, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World War
II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established an autocratic
socialist system that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed
strict controls over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of
millions of people. After 1978, MAO's successor DENG Xiaoping and
other leaders focused on market-oriented economic development and by
2000 output had quadrupled. For much of the population, living
standards have improved dramatically and the room for personal
choice has expanded, yet political controls remain tight. China
since the early 1990s has increased its global outreach and
participation in international organizations.







Geography ::China




Location:


Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow Sea,
and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam



Geographic coordinates:


35 00 N, 105 00 E



Map references:


Asia



Area:


total: 9,596,961 sq km
country comparison to the world: 4
land: 9,569,901 sq km

water: 27,060 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than the US



Land boundaries:


total: 22,117 km

border countries: Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km,
India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea 1,416 km,
Kyrgyzstan 858 km, Laos 423 km, Mongolia 4,677 km, Nepal 1,236 km,
Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast) 3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40
km, Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281 km

regional borders: Hong Kong 30 km, Macau 0.34 km



Coastline:


14,500 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north



Terrain:


mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains, deltas,
and hills in east



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Turpan Pendi -154 m

highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m



Natural resources:


coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury, tin, tungsten,
antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite, aluminum,
lead, zinc, rare earth elements, uranium, hydropower potential
(world's largest)



Land use:


arable land: 14.86%

permanent crops: 1.27%

other: 83.87% (2005)



Irrigated land:


545,960 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


2,829.6 cu km (1999)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 549.76 cu km/yr (7%/26%/68%)

per capita: 415 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


frequent typhoons (about five per year along southern and eastern
coasts); damaging floods; tsunamis; earthquakes; droughts; land
subsidence

volcanism: China contains some historically active volcanoes
including Changbaishan (also known as Baitoushan, Baegdu, or
P'aektu-san), Hainan Dao, and Kunlun although most have been
relatively inactive in recent centuries



Environment - current issues:


air pollution (greenhouse gases, sulfur dioxide particulates) from
reliance on coal produces acid rain; water shortages, particularly
in the north; water pollution from untreated wastes; deforestation;
estimated loss of one-fifth of agricultural land since 1949 to soil
erosion and economic development; desertification; trade in
endangered species



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


world's fourth largest country (after Russia, Canada, and US); Mount
Everest on the border with Nepal is the world's tallest peak







People ::China




Population:


1,330,141,295 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1


Age structure:


0-14 years: 19.8% (male 140,877,745/female 124,290,090)

15-64 years: 72.1% (male 495,724,889/female 469,182,087)

65 years and over: 8.1% (male 51,774,115/female 56,764,042) (2010
est.)



Median age:


total: 35.2 years

male: 34.5 years

female: 35.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.494% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153


Birth rate:


12.17 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


Death rate:


6.89 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Net migration rate:


-0.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 135


Urbanization:


urban population: 43% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.14 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.17 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female

total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 16.51 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 114
male: 15.84 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 17.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 74.51 years
country comparison to the world: 93
male: 72.54 years

female: 76.77 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.54 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


700,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


39,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: Japanese encephalitis and dengue fever

soil contact disease: hantaviral hemorrhagic fever with renal
syndrome (HFRS)

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Chinese (singular and plural)

adjective: Chinese



Ethnic groups:


Han Chinese 91.5%, Zhuang, Manchu, Hui, Miao, Uighur, Tujia, Yi,
Mongol, Tibetan, Buyi, Dong, Yao, Korean, and other nationalities
8.5% (2000 census)



Religions:


Daoist (Taoist), Buddhist, Christian 3%-4%, Muslim 1%-2%

note: officially atheist (2002 est.)



Languages:


Standard Chinese or Mandarin (Putonghua, based on the Beijing
dialect) (official), Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghainese), Minbei
(Fuzhou), Minnan (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects,
minority languages (see Ethnic groups entry)

note: Mongolian is official in Nei Mongol, Uighur is official in
Xinjiang Uygur, and Tibetan is official in Xizang (Tibet)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 91.6%

male: 95.7%

female: 87.6% (2007)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years

male: 11 years

female: 12 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


1.9% of GDP (1999)
country comparison to the world: 172






Government ::China




Country name:


conventional long form: People's Republic of China

conventional short form: China

local long form: Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo

local short form: Zhongguo

abbreviation: PRC



Government type:


Communist state



Capital:


name: Beijing

geographic coordinates: 39 55 N, 116 23 E

time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

note: despite its size, all of China falls within one time zone;
many people in Xinjiang Province observe an unofficial "Xinjiang
timezone" of UTC+6, two hours behind Beijing



Administrative divisions:


23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural), 5 autonomous regions
(zizhiqu, singular and plural), and 4 municipalities (shi, singular
and plural)

provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei,
Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin,
Liaoning, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Yunnan,
Zhejiang; (see note on Taiwan)

autonomous regions: Guangxi, Nei Mongol, Ningxia, Xinjiang Uygur,
Xizang (Tibet)

municipalities: Beijing, Chongqing, Shanghai, Tianjin

note: China considers Taiwan its 23rd province; see separate entries
for the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau



Independence:


1 October 1949 (People's Republic of China established); notable
earlier dates: 221 BC (unification under the Qin Dynasty); 1 January
1912 (Qing Dynasty replaced by the Republic of China)



National holiday:


Anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, 1
October (1949)



Constitution:


most recent promulgation 4 December 1982 with amendments in 1988,
1993, 1999, 2004



Legal system:


based on civil law system; derived from Soviet and continental civil
code legal principles; legislature retains power to interpret
statutes; constitution ambiguous on judicial review of legislation;
party organs exercise authority over judiciary; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President HU Jintao (since 15 March 2003); Vice
President XI Jinping (since 15 March 2008)

head of government: Premier WEN Jiabao (since 16 March 2003);
Executive Vice Premier LI Keqiang (17 March 2008), Vice Premier HUI
Liangyu (since 17 March 2003), Vice Premier ZHANG Dejiang (since 17
March 2008), and Vice Premier WANG Qishan (since 17 March 2008)

cabinet: State Council appointed by National People's Congress
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected by National People's
Congress for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
elections last held on 15-17 March 2008 (next to be held in
mid-March 2013); premier nominated by president, confirmed by
National People's Congress

election results: HU Jintao elected president by National People's
Congress with a total of 2,963 votes; XI Jinping elected vice
president with a total of 2,919 votes



Legislative branch:


unicameral National People's Congress or Quanguo Renmin Daibiao
Dahui (2,987 seats; members elected by municipal, regional, and
provincial people's congresses, and People's Liberation Army to
serve five-year terms)

elections: last held in December 2007-February 2008 (date of next
election to be held in late 2012 to early 2013)

election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - 2,987

note: only members of the CCP, its eight allied parties, and
sympathetic independent candidates are elected



Judicial branch:


Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the National People's
Congress); Local People's Courts (comprise higher, intermediate, and
basic courts); Special People's Courts (primarily military,
maritime, railway transportation, and forestry courts)



Political parties and leaders:


Chinese Communist Party or CCP [HU Jintao]; eight registered small
parties controlled by CCP



Political pressure groups and leaders:


no substantial political opposition groups exist



International organization participation:


ADB, AfDB (nonregional member), APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner),
BIS, CDB, CICA, EAS, FAO, FATF, G-20, G-24 (observer), G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAIA
(observer), MIGA, MINURSO, MONUSCO, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS
(observer), OPCW, PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), SCO, SICA
(observer), UN, UN Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNTSO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador ZHANG Yesui

chancery: 3505 International Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 495-2266

FAX: [1] (202) 495-2190

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Jon M. HUNTSMAN, Jr.

embassy: 55 An Jia Lou Lu, 100600 Beijing

mailing address: PSC 461, Box 50, FPO AP 96521-0002

telephone: [86] (10) 8531-3000

FAX: [86] (10) 8531-3300

consulate(s) general: Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang, Wuhan



Flag description:


red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller yellow
five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the middle of
the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner; the color red represents
revolution, while the stars symbolize the four social classes - the
working class, the peasantry, the urban petty bourgeoisie, and the
national bourgeoisie (capitalists) - united under the Communist
Party of China



National anthem:


name: "Yiyonggjun Jinxingqu" (The March of the Volunteers)

lyrics/music: TIAN Han/NIE Er

note: adopted 1949; the anthem, though banned during the Cultural
Revolution, is more commonly known as "Zhongguo Guoge" (Chinese
National Song); it was originally the theme song to the 1935 Chinese
movie, "Sons and Daughters in a Time of Storm"







Economy ::China




Economy - overview:


China's economy since the late 1970s has changed from a closed,
centrally planned system to a more market-oriented one that plays a
major role in the global economy - in 2010 China became the world's
largest exporter. Reforms began with the phasing out of
collectivized agriculture, and expanded to include the gradual
liberalization of prices, fiscal decentralization, increased
autonomy for state enterprises, creation of a diversified banking
system, development of stock markets, rapid growth of the private
sector, and opening to foreign trade and investment. China generally
has implemented reforms in a gradualist fashion. In recent years,
China has renewed its support for state-owned enterprises in sectors
it considers important to "economic security," explicitly looking to
foster globally competitive national champions. After keeping its
currency tightly linked to the US dollar for years, in July 2005
China revalued its currency by 2.1% against the US dollar and moved
to an exchange rate system that references a basket of currencies.
From mid 2005 to late 2008 cumulative appreciation of the renminbi
against the US dollar was more than 20%, but the exchange rate
remained virtually pegged to the dollar from the onset of the global
financial crisis until June 2010, when Beijing allowed resumption of
a gradual appreciation. The restructuring of the economy and
resulting efficiency gains have contributed to a more than tenfold
increase in GDP since 1978. Measured on a purchasing power parity
(PPP) basis that adjusts for price differences, China in 2010 stood
as the second-largest economy in the world after the US, having
surpassed Japan in 2001. The dollar values of China's agricultural
and industrial output each exceeded those of the US, although China
was second to the US in the value of services it produced. Still,
per capita income is below the world average. The Chinese government
faces numerous economic development challenges, including: (a)
reducing its high domestic savings rate and correspondingly low
domestic demand; (b) sustaining adequate job growth for tens of
millions of migrants and new entrants to the work force; (c)
reducing corruption and other economic crimes; and (d) containing
environmental damage and social strife related to the economy's
rapid transformation. Economic development has progressed further in
coastal provinces than in the interior, and approximately 200
million rural laborers and their dependents have relocated to urban
areas to find work. One demographic consequence of the "one child"
policy is that China is now one of the most rapidly aging countries
in the world. Deterioration in the environment - notably air
pollution, soil erosion, and the steady fall of the water table,
especially in the north - is another long-term problem. China
continues to lose arable land because of erosion and economic
development. The Chinese government is seeking to add energy
production capacity from sources other than coal and oil, focusing
on nuclear and alternative energy development. In 2009, the global
economic downturn reduced foreign demand for Chinese exports for the
first time in many years, but China rebounded quickly, outperforming
all other major economies in 2010 with GDP growth around 10%. The
economy appears set to remain on a strong growth trajectory in 2011,
lending credibility to the stimulus policies the regime rolled out
during the global financial crisis. The government vows to continue
reforming the economy and emphasizes the need to increase domestic
consumption in order to make the economy less dependent on exports
for GDP growth in the future, but China likely will make only
marginal progress toward these rebalancing goals in 2011. Two
economic problems China currently faces are inflation - which, late
in 2010, surpassed the government's target of 3% - and local
government debt, which swelled as a result of stimulus policies, and
is largely off-the-books and potentially low-quality.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$9.872 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3
$8.95 trillion (2009 est.)

$8.204 trillion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$5.745 trillion

note: because China's exchange rate is determine by fiat, rather
than by market forces, the official exchange rate measure of GDP is
not an accurate measure of China's output; GDP at the official
exchange rate substantially understates the actual level of China's
output vis-a-vis the rest of the world; in China's situation, GDP at
purchasing power parity provides the best measure for comparing
output across countries (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


10.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5
9.1% (2009 est.)

9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$7,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127
$6,800 (2009 est.)

$6,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9.6%

industry: 46.8%

services: 43.6% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


819.5 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 39.5%

industry: 27.2%

services: 33.2% (2008 est.)



Unemployment rate:


4.3% (September 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40
4.2% (December 2008 est.)

note: official data for urban areas only; including migrants may
boost total unemployment to 9%; substantial unemployment and
underemployment in rural areas



Population below poverty line:


2.8%

note: 21.5 million rural population live below the official
"absolute poverty" line (approximately $90 per year); an additional
35.5 million rural population live above that level but below the
official "low income" line (approximately $125 per year) (2007)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.5%

highest 10%: 15%

note: data are for urban households only (2008)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


41.5 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 54
40 (2001)



Investment (gross fixed):


47.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1


Public debt:


17.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
16.9% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 143
-0.7% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


2.79% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 129
2.79% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


5.81% (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147
5.31% (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$3.838 trillion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 4
$3.242 trillion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$10.08 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5
$8.933 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$8.156 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4
$7.24 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$5.008 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4
$2.794 trillion (31 December 2008)

$6.226 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


world leader in gross value of agricultural output; rice, wheat,
potatoes, corn, peanuts, tea, millet, barley, apples, cotton,
oilseed; pork; fish



Industries:


world leader in gross value of industrial output; mining and ore
processing, iron, steel, aluminum, and other metals, coal; machine
building; armaments; textiles and apparel; petroleum; cement;
chemicals; fertilizers; consumer products, including footwear, toys,
and electronics; food processing; transportation equipment,
including automobiles, rail cars and locomotives, ships, and
aircraft; telecommunications equipment, commercial space launch
vehicles, satellites



Industrial production growth rate:


11% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


Electricity - production:


3.451 trillion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Electricity - consumption:


3.438 trillion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Electricity - exports:


16.64 billion kWh (2008)



Electricity - imports:


3.842 billion kWh (2008)



Oil - production:


3.991 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 5


Oil - consumption:


8.2 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Oil - exports:


388,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


Oil - imports:


4.393 million bbl/day (2008)
country comparison to the world: 4


Oil - proved reserves:


20.35 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Natural gas - production:


82.94 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 8


Natural gas - consumption:


87.08 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 9


Natural gas - exports:


3.32 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 31


Natural gas - imports:


7.462 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 27


Natural gas - proved reserves:


3.03 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Current account balance:


$272.5 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1
$297.1 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$1.506 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2
$1.204 trillion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


electrical and other machinery, including data processing equipment,
apparel, textiles, iron and steel, optical and medical equipment



Exports - partners:


US 20.03%, Hong Kong 12.03%, Japan 8.32%, South Korea 4.55%, Germany
4.27% (2009)



Imports:


$1.307 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3
$954.3 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


electrical and other machinery, oil and mineral fuels, optical and
medical equipment, metal ores, plastics, organic chemicals



Imports - partners:


Japan 12.27%, Hong Kong 10.06%, South Korea 9.04%, US 7.66%, Taiwan
6.84%, Germany 5.54% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$2.622 trillion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1
$2.426 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$406.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$349.3 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$574.3 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9
$473.1 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$278.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15
$229.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Renminbi yuan (RMB) per US dollar - 6.7852 (2010), 6.8314 (2009),
6.9385 (2008), 7.61 (2007), 7.97 (2006)







Communications ::China




Telephones - main lines in use:


313.68 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 1


Telephones - mobile cellular:


747 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 1


Telephone system:


general assessment: domestic and international services are
increasingly available for private use; unevenly distributed
domestic system serves principal cities, industrial centers, and
many towns; China continues to develop its telecommunications
infrastructure, and is partnering with foreign providers to expand
its global reach; China in the summer of 2008 began a major
restructuring of its telecommunications industry, resulting in the
consolidation of its six telecom service operators to three, China
Telecom, China Mobile and China Unicom, each providing both
fixed-line and mobile services

domestic: interprovincial fiber-optic trunk lines and cellular
telephone systems have been installed; mobile-cellular
subscribership is increasing rapidly; the number of Internet users
exceeded 250 million by summer 2008; a domestic satellite system
with 55 earth stations is in place

international: country code - 86; a number of submarine cables
provide connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and the US;
satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4 Pacific Ocean and 1
Indian Ocean; 1 Intersputnik - Indian Ocean region; and 1 Inmarsat -
Pacific and Indian Ocean regions) (2008)



Broadcast media:


all broadcast media are owned by, or affiliated with, the Communist
Party of China or a government agency; no privately-owned television
or radio stations with state-run Chinese Central TV, provincial, and
municipal stations offering more than 2,000 channels; the Central
Propaganda Department lists subjects that are off limits to domestic
broadcast media with the government maintaining authority to approve
all programming; foreign-made TV programs must be approved prior to
broadcast (2008)



Internet country code:


.cn



Internet hosts:


15.251 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 6


Internet users:


389 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 1






Transportation ::China




Airports:


502 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 15


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 442

over 3,047 m: 63

2,438 to 3,047 m: 137

1,524 to 2,437 m: 132

914 to 1,523 m: 27

under 914 m: 83 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 60

over 3,047 m: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 7

1,524 to 2,437 m: 9

914 to 1,523 m: 13

under 914 m: 27 (2010)



Heliports:


48 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 32,545 km; oil 20,097 km; refined products 10,915 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 77,834 km
country comparison to the world: 3
standard gauge: 77,084 km 1.435-m gauge (24,433 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 750 km 0.750-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 3,583,715 km (includes 53,913 km of expressways) (2007)
country comparison to the world: 2


Waterways:


110,000 km navigable (2010)
country comparison to the world: 1


Merchant marine:


total: 2,010
country comparison to the world: 3
by type: barge carrier 6, bulk carrier 571, cargo 639, carrier 5,
chemical tanker 98, container 204, liquefied gas 55, passenger 9,
passenger/cargo 83, petroleum tanker 271, refrigerated cargo 35,
roll on/roll off 9, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 24

foreign-owned: 18 (Germany 1, Hong Kong 15, Japan 2)

registered in other countries: 1,623 (Bahamas 4, Bangladesh 1,
Belize 64, Bermuda 13, Cambodia 203, Comoros 1, Cyprus 6, France 5,
Georgia 11, Germany 2, Honduras 2, Hong Kong 432, India 1, Indonesia
1, Kiribati 28, Liberia 10, Malta 11, Marshall Islands 16, North
Korea 1, Norway 25, Panama 574, Philippines 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis
1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 82, Sierra Leone 12, Singapore
26, South Korea 9, Thailand 1, Togo 2, Tuvalu 9, UK 7, unknown 59)
(2010)



Ports and terminals:


Dalian, Guangzhou, Ningbo, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Shanghai, Shenzhen,
Tianjin







Military ::China




Military branches:


People's Liberation Army (PLA): Ground Forces, Navy (includes
marines and naval aviation), Air Force (Zhongguo Renmin Jiefangjun
Kongjun, PLAAF; includes Airborne Forces), and Second Artillery
Corps (strategic missile force); People's Armed Police (PAP); PLA
Reserve Force (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-22 years of age for selective compulsory military service, with
24-month service obligation; no minimum age for voluntary service
(all officers are volunteers); 18-19 years of age for women high
school graduates who meet requirements for specific military jobs;
in 2010, a decision was made to allow women in combat roles (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 381,747,145

females age 16-49: 360,385,629 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 314,668,817

females age 16-49: 298,745,786 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 10,699,186

female: 9,460,217 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


4.3% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 22






Transnational Issues ::China




Disputes - international:


continuing talks and confidence-building measures work toward
reducing tensions over Kashmir that nonetheless remains militarized
with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai
Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and
Northern Areas); India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic
Kashmir lands to China in 1964; China and India continue their
security and foreign policy dialogue started in 2005 related to the
dispute over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional
nuclear proliferation, and other matters; China claims most of
India's Arunachal Pradesh to the base of the Himalayas; lacking any
treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China continue
negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to resolve
territorial disputes due to cartographic discrepancies; Chinese maps
show an international boundary symbol off the coasts of the littoral
states of the South China Seas, where China has interrupted
Vietnamese hydrocarbon exploration; China asserts sovereignty over
Scarborough Reef along with the Philippines and Taiwan, and over the
Spratly Islands together with Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan,
Vietnam, and Brunei; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties
in the South China Sea" eased tensions in the Spratly's but is not
the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some parties;
Vietnam and China continue to expand construction of facilities in
the Spratly's and in March 2005, the national oil companies of
China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord on marine
seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; China occupies some of
the Paracel Islands also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; China and
Taiwan continue to reject both Japan's claims to the uninhabited
islands of Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's unilaterally
declared equidistance line in the East China Sea, the site of
intensive hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation; certain islands
in the Yalu and Tumen rivers are in dispute with North Korea; North
Korea and China seek to stem illegal migration to China by North
Koreans, fleeing privations and oppression, by building a fence
along portions of the border and imprisoning North Koreans deported
by China; China and Russia have demarcated the once disputed islands
at the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun River in
accordance with their 2004 Agreement; China and Tajikistan have
begun demarcating the revised boundary agreed to in the delimitation
of 2002; the decade-long demarcation of the China-Vietnam land
boundary was completed in 2009; citing environmental, cultural, and
social concerns, China has reconsidered construction of 13 dams on
the Salween River, but energy-starved Burma, with backing from
Thailand, remains intent on building five hydro-electric dams
downstream despite regional and international protests; Chinese and
Hong Kong authorities met in March 2008 to resolve ownership and use
of lands recovered in Shenzhen River channelization, including
96-hectare Lok Ma Chau Loop; Hong Kong developing plans to reduce
2,000 out of 2,800 hectares of its restricted Closed Area by 2010



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 300,897 (Vietnam); estimated
30,000-50,000 (North Korea)

IDPs: 90,000 (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: China is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
sexual exploitation and forced labor; the majority of trafficking in
China occurs within the country's borders, but there is also
considerable international trafficking of Chinese citizens to
Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and North
America; Chinese women are lured abroad through false promises of
legitimate employment, only to be forced into commercial sexual
exploitation, largely in Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, and Japan;
women and children are trafficked to China from Mongolia, Burma,
North Korea, Russia, and Vietnam for forced labor, marriage, and
prostitution; some North Korean women and children seeking to leave
their country voluntarily cross the border into China and are then
sold into prostitution, marriage, or forced labor

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - China is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for the fourth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence
of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in
terms of punishment of trafficking crimes and the protection of
Chinese and foreign victims of trafficking; victims are sometimes
punished for unlawful acts that were committed as a direct result of
their being trafficked, such as violations of prostitution or
immigration/emigration controls; the Chinese Government continued to
treat North Korean victims of trafficking solely as economic
migrants, routinely deporting them back to horrendous conditions in
North Korea; additional challenges facing the Chinese Government
include the enormous size of its trafficking problem and the
significant level of corruption and complicity in trafficking by
some local government officials (2008)



Illicit drugs:


major transshipment point for heroin produced in the Golden Triangle
region of Southeast Asia; growing domestic consumption of synthetic
drugs, and heroin from Southeast and Southwest Asia; source country
for methamphetamine and heroin chemical precursors, despite new
regulations on its large chemical industry (2008)









page last updated on January 24, 2011

======================================================================




@Christmas Island  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Christmas Island




Background:


Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the island was annexed
and settlement began by the UK in 1888. Phosphate mining began in
the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty to Australia in 1958.
Almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a national park.







Geography ::Christmas Island




Location:


Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of Indonesia



Geographic coordinates:


10 30 S, 105 40 E



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 135 sq km
country comparison to the world: 221
land: 135 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


138.9 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical with a wet season (December to April) and dry season; heat
and humidity moderated by trade winds



Terrain:


steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central plateau



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: Murray Hill 361 m



Natural resources:


phosphate, beaches



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (mainly tropical rainforest; 63% of the island is a
national park) (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can be a maritime
hazard



Environment - current issues:


loss of rainforest; impact of phosphate mining



Geography - note:


located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean







People ::Christmas Island




Population:


1,402 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 233


Age structure:


0-14 years: NA

15-64 years: NA

65 years and over: NA



Population growth rate:


0% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Birth rate:


NA



Death rate:


NA



Net migration rate:


NA



Sex ratio:


NA (2009 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Total fertility rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Christmas Islander(s)

adjective: Christmas Island



Ethnic groups:


Chinese 70%, European 20%, Malay 10%

note: no indigenous population (2001)



Religions:


Buddhist 36%, Muslim 25%, Christian 18%, other 21% (1997)



Languages:


English (official), Chinese, Malay



Literacy:


NA







Government ::Christmas Island




Country name:


conventional long form: Territory of Christmas Island

conventional short form: Christmas Island



Dependency status:


non-self governing territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Government Attorney-General's Department



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: The Settlement

geographic coordinates: 10 25 S, 105 43 E

time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (territory of Australia)



Independence:


none (territory of Australia)



National holiday:


Australia Day, 26 January (1788)



Constitution:


Christmas Island Act of 1958-59 (1 October 1958) as amended by the
Territories Law Reform Act of 1992



Legal system:


under the authority of the governor general of Australia and
Australian law



Suffrage:


18 years of age



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
represented by the Australian governor general

head of government: Administrator Brian LACY (since 5 October 2009)

elections: the monarchy is hereditary; administrator appointed by
the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia



Legislative branch:


unicameral Christmas Island Shire Council (9 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
election; last held on 17 October 2009 (next to be held in 2011)

election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 9



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court



Political parties and leaders:


none



Political pressure groups and leaders:


none



International organization participation:


none



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Flag description:


territorial flag; divided diagonally from upper hoist to lower fly;
the upper triangle is green with a yellow image of the Golden Bosun
Bird superimposed, the lower triangle is blue with the Southern
Cross constellation, representing Australia, superimposed; a
centered yellow disk displays a green map of the island

note: the flag of Australia is used for official purposes



National anthem:


note: as a territory of Australia, "Advance Australia Fair" remains
official as the national anthem, while "God Save the Queen" serves
as the royal anthem (see Australia)







Economy ::Christmas Island




Economy - overview:


Phosphate mining had been the only significant economic activity,
but in December 1987 the Australian government closed the mine. In
1991, the mine was reopened. With the support of the government, a
$34 million casino opened in 1993, but closed in 1998.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$NA



Labor force:


NA



Agriculture - products:


NA



Industries:


tourism, phosphate extraction (near depletion)



Exports:


$NA



Exports - commodities:


phosphate



Imports:


$NA



Imports - commodities:


consumer goods



Exchange rates:


Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.1151 (2010), 1.2822
(2009), 1.2059 (2008), 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285 (2006)







Communications ::Christmas Island




Telephones - main lines in use:


NA



Telephone system:


general assessment: service provided by the Australian network

domestic: GSM mobile-cellular telephone service replaced older
analog system in February 2005

international: country code - 61-8; satellite earth station - 1
(Intelsat provides telephone and telex service) (2005)



Broadcast media:


1 community radio station; broadcasts of several Australian radio
and television stations are received via satellite (2009)



Internet country code:


.cx



Internet hosts:


2,542 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 149


Internet users:


464 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 216






Transportation ::Christmas Island




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 235


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Railways:


total: 18 km
country comparison to the world: 133
standard gauge: 18 km 1.435-m (not in operation) (2010)



Roadways:


total: 140 km
country comparison to the world: 210
paved: 30 km

unpaved: 110 km (2007)



Ports and terminals:


Flying Fish Cove







Military ::Christmas Island




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of Australia







Transnational Issues ::Christmas Island




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Clipperton Island  (North America)

Introduction ::Clipperton Island




Background:


This isolated island was named for John CLIPPERTON, a pirate who
made it his hideout early in the 18th century. Annexed by France in
1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897. Arbitration eventually
awarded the island to France, which took possession in 1935.







Geography ::Clipperton Island




Location:


Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, 1,120 km southwest
of Mexico



Geographic coordinates:


10 17 N, 109 13 W



Map references:


Political Map of the World



Area:


total: 6 sq km
country comparison to the world: 244
land: 6 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


about 12 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


11.1 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; humid, average temperature 20-32 degrees C, wet season
(May to October)



Terrain:


coral atoll



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Rocher Clipperton 29 m



Natural resources:


fish



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (all coral) (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


NA



Environment - current issues:


NA



Geography - note:


reef 12 km in circumference







People ::Clipperton Island




Population:


uninhabited







Government ::Clipperton Island




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Clipperton Island

local long form: none

local short form: Ile Clipperton

former: sometimes called Ile de la Passion



Dependency status:


possession of France; administered directly by the Minister of
Overseas France



Legal system:


the laws of France where applicable apply



Flag description:


the flag of France is used







Economy ::Clipperton Island




Economy - overview:


Although 115 species of fish have been identified in the territorial
waters of Clipperton Island, the only economic activity is tuna
fishing.








Transportation ::Clipperton Island




Ports and terminals:


none; offshore anchorage only







Military ::Clipperton Island




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of France







Transnational Issues ::Clipperton Island




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Cocos (Keeling) Islands  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Background:


There are 27 coral islands in the group. Captain William KEELING
discovered the islands in 1609, but they remained uninhabited until
the 19th century. From the 1820s to 1978, members of the CLUNIE-ROSS
family controlled the islands and the copra produced from local
coconuts. Annexed by the UK in 1857, the Cocos Islands were
transferred to the Australian Government in 1955. The population on
the two inhabited islands generally is split between the ethnic
Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on Home Island.







Geography ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Location:


Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the Indian Ocean, southwest
of Indonesia, about halfway from Australia to Sri Lanka



Geographic coordinates:


12 30 S, 96 50 E



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 14 sq km
country comparison to the world: 240
land: 14 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes the two main islands of West Island and Home Island



Area - comparative:


about 24 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


26 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical with high humidity, moderated by the southeast trade winds
for about nine months of the year



Terrain:


flat, low-lying coral atolls



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: unnamed location 5 m



Natural resources:


fish



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


cyclone season is October to April



Environment - current issues:


fresh water resources are limited to rainwater accumulations in
natural underground reservoirs



Geography - note:


islands are thickly covered with coconut palms and other vegetation;
site of a World War I naval battle in November 1914 between the
Australian light cruiser HMAS Sydney and the German raider SMS
Emden; after being heavily damaged in the engagement, the Emden was
beached by her captain on North Keeling Island







People ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Population:


596 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 237


Age structure:


0-14 years: NA

15-64 years: NA

65 years and over: NA



Population growth rate:


0% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Birth rate:


NA



Death rate:


NA



Net migration rate:


NA



Infant mortality rate:


total: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Total fertility rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Cocos Islander(s)

adjective: Cocos Islander



Ethnic groups:


Europeans, Cocos Malays



Religions:


Sunni Muslim 80%, other 20% (2002 est.)



Languages:


Malay (Cocos dialect), English



Literacy:


NA







Government ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands

conventional short form: Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Dependency status:


non-self governing territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Government Attorney-General's Department



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: West Island

geographic coordinates: 12 10 S, 96 50 E

time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (territory of Australia)



Independence:


none (territory of Australia)



National holiday:


Australia Day, 26 January (1788)



Constitution:


Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955 (23 November 1955) as amended by
the Territories Law Reform Act of 1992



Legal system:


based upon the laws of Australia and local laws



Suffrage:


18 years of age



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by the Australian governor general

head of government: Administrator (nonresident) Brian LACY (since 5
October 2009)

cabinet: NA
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; administrator appointed by
the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia



Legislative branch:


unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire Council (7 seats)

elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
election; last held in May 2007 (next to be held in May 2009)



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court



Political parties and leaders:


none



Political pressure groups and leaders:


The Cocos Islands Youth Support Centre



International organization participation:


none



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Flag description:


the flag of Australia is used



National anthem:


note: as a territory of Australia, "Advance Australia Fair" remains
official as the national anthem, while "God Save the Queen" serves
as the royal anthem (see Australia)







Economy ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Economy - overview:


Coconuts, grown throughout the islands, are the sole cash crop.
Small local gardens and fishing contribute to the food supply, but
additional food and most other necessities must be imported from
Australia. There is a small tourist industry.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$NA



Labor force:


NA



Labor force - by occupation:


note: the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society Ltd. employs
construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage workers; tourism
employs others



Unemployment rate:


60% (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Agriculture - products:


vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts



Industries:


copra products and tourism



Exports:


$NA



Exports - commodities:


copra



Imports:


$NA



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs



Exchange rates:


Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.1151 (2010), 1.2822
(2009), 1.2059 (2008), 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285 (2006)







Communications ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Telephones - main lines in use:


287 (1992)
country comparison to the world: 229


Telephone system:


general assessment: connected within Australia's telecommunication
system; a local mobile-cellular network is in operation

domestic: NA

international: country code - 61; telephone, telex, and facsimile
communications with Australia and elsewhere via satellite; satellite
earth station - 1 (Intelsat) (2001)



Broadcast media:


1 local radio station staffed by community volunteers; broadcasts of
several Australian radio and TV stations are received via satellite
(2009)



Internet country code:


.cc



Internet hosts:


35,312 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 96






Transportation ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Airports:


1 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 234


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 22 km
country comparison to the world: 220
paved: 10 km

unpaved: 12 km (2007)



Ports and terminals:


Port Refuge







Military ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of Australia; the territory has a
five-person police force







Transnational Issues ::Cocos (Keeling) Islands




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Colombia  (South America)

Introduction ::Colombia




Background:


Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from the
collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others are Ecuador and
Venezuela). A four-decade long conflict between government forces
and anti-government insurgent groups, principally the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) heavily funded by the drug trade,
escalated during the 1990s. The insurgents lack the military or
popular support necessary to overthrow the government and violence
has been decreasing since about 2002, but insurgents continue
attacks against civilians and large areas of the countryside are
under guerrilla influence or are contested by security forces. More
than 31,000 former paramilitaries had demobilized by the end of 2006
and the United Self Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC) as a formal
organization had ceased to function. In the wake of the paramilitary
demobilization, emerging criminal groups arose, whose members
include some former paramilitaries. The Colombian Government has
stepped up efforts to reassert government control throughout the
country, and now has a presence in every one of its administrative
departments. However, neighboring countries worry about the violence
spilling over their borders. In January 2011, Colombia assumed a
nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011-12 term.







Geography ::Colombia




Location:


Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Panama
and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
Ecuador and Panama



Geographic coordinates:


4 00 N, 72 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 1,138,910 sq km
country comparison to the world: 26
land: 1,038,700 sq km

water: 100,210 sq km

note: includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, and Serrana Bank



Area - comparative:


slightly less than twice the size of Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 6,309 km

border countries: Brazil 1,644 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km,
Peru 1,800 km, Venezuela 2,050 km



Coastline:


3,208 km (Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean 1,448 km)



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands



Terrain:


flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes Mountains,
eastern lowland plains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Pico Cristobal Colon 5,775 m

note: nearby Pico Simon Bolivar also has the same elevation



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold, copper,
emeralds, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 2.01%

permanent crops: 1.37%

other: 96.62% (2005)



Irrigated land:


9,000 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


2,132 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 10.71 cu km/yr (50%/4%/46%)

per capita: 235 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; occasional earthquakes;
periodic droughts

volcanism: Galeras (elev. 4,276 m, 14,029 ft) is one of Colombia's
most active volcanoes, having erupted in 2009 and 2010 causing major
evacuations; it has been deemed a "Decade Volcano" by the
International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the
Earth's Interior, worthy of study due to its explosive history and
close proximity to human populations; Nevado del Ruiz (elev. 5,321
m, 17,453 ft), 129 km (80 mi) west of Bogota, erupted in 1985
producing lahars that killed 23,000 people; the volcano last erupted
in 1991; additionally, after 500 years of dormancy, Nevado del Huila
reawakened in 2007 and has experienced frequent eruptions since
then; other historically active volcanoes include Cumbal, Dona
Juana, Nevado del Tolima, and Purace



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; soil and water quality damage from overuse of
pesticides; air pollution, especially in Bogota, from vehicle
emissions



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


only South American country with coastlines on both the North
Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea







People ::Colombia




Population:


44,205,293 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Age structure:


0-14 years: 27.7% (male 6,192,707/female 5,919,959)

15-64 years: 66.4% (male 14,292,342/female 14,717,249)

65 years and over: 5.8% (male 1,093,432/female 1,461,683) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 27.6 years

male: 26.7 years

female: 28.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.184% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Birth rate:


17.76 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Death rate:


5.24 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179


Net migration rate:


-0.68 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


Urbanization:


urban population: 74% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 16.87 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 111
male: 20.52 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 13.01 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 74.31 years
country comparison to the world: 97
male: 70.98 years

female: 77.84 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.18 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.6% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


170,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


9,800 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Colombian(s)

adjective: Colombian



Ethnic groups:


mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed
black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 90%, other 10%



Languages:


Spanish (official)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 90.4%

male: 90.1%

female: 90.7% (2005 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 13 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


3.9% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 111






Government ::Colombia




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Colombia

conventional short form: Colombia

local long form: Republica de Colombia

local short form: Colombia



Government type:


republic; executive branch dominates government structure



Capital:


name: Bogota

geographic coordinates: 4 36 N, 74 05 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


32 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 1
capital district* (distrito capital); Amazonas, Antioquia, Arauca,
Atlantico, Bogota*, Bolivar, Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta, Casanare,
Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba, Cundinamarca, Guainia, Guaviare,
Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta, Narino, Norte de Santander,
Putumayo, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y Providencia, Santander,
Sucre, Tolima, Valle del Cauca, Vaupes, Vichada



Independence:


20 July 1810 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 20 July (1810)



Constitution:


5 July 1991; amended many times



Legal system:


based on Spanish law; a new criminal code modeled after US
procedures was enacted into law in 2004 and reached full
implementation in January 2008; judicial review of executive and
legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Juan Manuel SANTOS Calderon (since 7
August 2010); Vice President Angelino GARZON (since 7 August 2010);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Juan Manuel SANTOS Calderon (since 7
August 2010); Vice President Angelino GARZON (since 7 August 2010)

cabinet: Cabinet
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected by popular vote for
a four-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
30 May 2010 with a runoff election 20 June 2010 (next to be held in
May 2014)

election results: Juan Manuel SANTOS Calderon elected president in
runoff election; percent of vote - Juan Manuel SANTOS Calderon
69.06%, Antanas MOCKUS 27.52%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Senate or Senado (102
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms) and
the Chamber of Representatives or Camara de Representantes (166
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 14 March 2010 (next to be held in
March 2014); Chamber of Representatives - last held on 14 March 2010
(next to be held in March 2014)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - U Party 28, PC 22, PL 16, PIN 9, CR 8, PDA 8, Green Party 5,
other parties 5; Chamber of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - U Party 47, PC 37, PL 36, CR 16, PIN
12, PDA 4, Green Party 3, other parties 10; note - as of 1 January
2011, the Senate currently has 101 seats after one seat became
vacant due to a PL senator losing their seat for illegal collusion
with the FARC; the Chamber of Representatives also has one seat
vacant after only 165 of the 166 candidates were credentialed



Judicial branch:


four roughly coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme Court of
Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (highest court of criminal law;
judges are selected by their peers from the nominees of the Superior
Judicial Council for eight-year terms); Council of State (highest
court of administrative law; judges are selected from the nominees
of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms);
Constitutional Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the
constitution; rules on constitutionality of laws, amendments to the
constitution, and international treaties); Superior Judicial Council
(administers and disciplines the civilian judiciary; resolves
jurisdictional conflicts arising between other courts; members are
elected by three sister courts and Congress for eight-year terms)



Political parties and leaders:


Alternative Democratic Pole or PDA [Clara LOPEZ]; Conservative Party
or PC [Fernando ARAUJO]; Green Party [Luis GARZON]; Liberal Party or
PL [Rafael PARDO]; National Integration Party or PIN [Angel ALIRIO
Moreno]; Radical Change or CR [German VARGAS Lleras]; Social
National Unity Party or U Party [Juan Francisco LOZANO Ramirez]

note: Colombia has seven major political parties, and numerous
smaller movements



Political pressure groups and leaders:


National Liberation Army or ELN; Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia or FARC

note: two largest insurgent groups active in Colombia



International organization participation:


BCIE, CAN, Caricom (observer), CDB, FAO, G-3, G-24, G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Gabriel SILVA Lujan

chancery: 2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 387-8338

FAX: [1] (202) 232-8643

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico),
Washington, DC



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador William R. BROWNFIELD

embassy: Calle 24 Bis No. 48-50, Bogota, D.C.

mailing address: Carrera 45 No. 24B-27, Bogota, D.C.

telephone: [57] (1) 315-0811

FAX: [57] (1) 315-2197



Flag description:


three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width), blue, and red;
the flag retains the three main colors of the banner of Gran
Columbia, the short-lived South American republic that broke up in
1830; various interpretations of the colors exist and include:
yellow for the gold in Colombia's land, blue for the seas on its
shores, and red for the blood spilled in attaining freedom;
alternatively, the colors have been described as representing more
elemental concepts such as sovereignty and justice (yellow), loyalty
and vigilance (blue), and valour and generosity (red); or simply the
principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity

note: similar to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and bears the
Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the center



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional de la Republica de Colombia" (National Anthem
of the Republic of Colombia)

lyrics/music: Rafael NUNEZ/Oreste SINDICI

note: adopted 1920; the anthem was created from an inspirational
poem written by President Rafael NUNEZ







Economy ::Colombia




Economy - overview:


Colombia experienced accelerating growth between 2002 and 2007,
chiefly due to improvements in domestic security, rising commodity
prices, and to President URIBE's promarket economic policies.
Foreign direct investment reached a record $10 billion in 2008, and
continues to flow in, especially in the oil sector. A series of
policies enhanced Colombia's investment climate: pro-business
reforms in the oil and gas sectors and export-led growth fueled
mainly by the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act.
Inequality, underemployment, and narcotrafficking remain significant
challenges, and Colombia's infrastructure requires major
improvements to sustain economic expansion. Because of the global
financial crisis and weakening demand for Colombia's exports,
Colombia's economy grew only 2.7% in 2008, and 0.8% in 2009 but
rebounded to around 4.5% in 2010. The government has encouraged
exporters to diversify their customer base beyond the United States
and Venezuela, traditionally Colombia's largest trading partners;
the SANTOS administration continues to pursue free trade agreements
with Asian and South American partners and awaits the approval of a
Canadian trade accord by Canada's and EU's parliaments. The business
sector remains concerned about Venezuela's trade restrictions on
Colombian exports, an appreciating domestic currency, and the
pending US Congressional approval of the US-Colombia Trade Promotion
Agreement.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$431.9 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29
$413.7 billion (2009 est.)

$410.4 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$283.1 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
0.8% (2009 est.)

2.7% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$9,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
$9,500 (2009 est.)

$9,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 9.3%

industry: 38%

services: 52.7% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


21.27 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 18%

industry: 18.9%

services: 63.1% (2009 est.)



Unemployment rate:


11.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123
12% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


46.8% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 0.8%

highest 10%: 45% (2008)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


58.5 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 8
53.8 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Public debt:


44.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60
45.3% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
4.2% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


3% (October 2010)
country comparison to the world: 79
5.5% (31 December 2009)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


12.98% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31
17.18% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$31.83 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 54
$24.41 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$104.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
$82.39 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$123 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
$96.66 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$133.3 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 39
$87.03 billion (31 December 2008)

$102 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco, corn, sugarcane, cocoa
beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products; shrimp



Industries:


textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear, beverages,
chemicals, cement; gold, coal, emeralds



Industrial production growth rate:


5.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Electricity - production:


50.58 billion kWh (2007)
country comparison to the world: 48


Electricity - consumption:


38.59 billion kWh (2007)
country comparison to the world: 53


Electricity - exports:


876.7 million kWh (2007)



Electricity - imports:


39.4 million kWh (2007)



Oil - production:


686,600 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


Oil - consumption:


288,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Oil - exports:


294,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Oil - imports:


16,540 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120


Oil - proved reserves:


2.1 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Natural gas - production:


9 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Natural gas - consumption:


8.1 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52


Natural gas - exports:


900 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Natural gas - proved reserves:


112 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


Current account balance:


-$5.946 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170
-$4.991 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$40.24 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59
$34.03 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum, coffee, coal, nickel, emeralds, apparel, bananas, cut
flowers



Exports - partners:


US 39%, Venezuela 12%, Netherlands 4% (2009)



Imports:


$36.26 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53
$31.48 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


industrial equipment, transportation equipment, consumer goods,
chemicals, paper products, fuels, electricity



Imports - partners:


US 28%, China 11%, Mexico 7%, Brazil 6.5%, France 4.5%, Germany 4%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$26.92 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
$24.99 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$57.74 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51
$52.9 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$84.62 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37
$75.22 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$19.2 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43
$16.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Colombian pesos (COP) per US dollar - 1,893.1 (2010), 2,157.6
(2009), 2,243.6 (2008), 2,013.8 (2007), 2,358.6 (2006)







Communications ::Colombia




Telephones - main lines in use:


7.5 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 25


Telephones - mobile cellular:


42.16 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 29


Telephone system:


general assessment: modern system in many respects with a nationwide
microwave radio relay system, a domestic satellite system with 41
earth stations, and a fiber-optic network linking 50 cities;
telecommunications sector liberalized during the 1990s; multiple
providers of both fixed-line and mobile-cellular services

domestic: fixed-line connections stand at about 15 per 100 persons;
mobile cellular telephone subscribership is about 90 per 100
persons; competition among cellular service providers is resulting
in falling local and international calling rates and contributing to
the steep decline in the market share of fixed line services

international: country code - 57; landing points for the ARCOS,
Colombia-Florida Subsea Fiber (CFX-1), Maya-1, Pan American, and the
South America-1 submarine cables providing links to the US, parts of
the Caribbean, and Central and South America; satellite earth
stations - 10 (6 Intelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 3 fully digitalized
international switching centers) (2009)



Broadcast media:


combination of state-owned and privately-owned broadcast media
provide service; more than 500 radio stations and large number of
national, regional, and local TV stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.co



Internet hosts:


2.527 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 32


Internet users:


22.538 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 18






Transportation ::Colombia




Airports:


990 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 7


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 116

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 8

1,524 to 2,437 m: 41

914 to 1,523 m: 50

under 914 m: 15 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 874

over 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 35

914 to 1,523 m: 228

under 914 m: 610 (2010)



Heliports:


2 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 4,567 km; oil 6,097 km; refined products 3,382 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 3,802 km
country comparison to the world: 45
standard gauge: 150 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge: 3,652 km 0.914-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 164,257 km (2005)
country comparison to the world: 31


Waterways:


18,000 km (2010)
country comparison to the world: 6


Merchant marine:


total: 13
country comparison to the world: 105
by type: cargo 11, petroleum tanker 1, specialized tanker 1

registered in other countries: 3 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Panama 2)
(2010)



Ports and terminals:


Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cartagena, Puerto Bolivar, Santa Marta,
Turbo







Military ::Colombia




Military branches:


National Army (Ejercito Nacional), National Navy (Armada Republica
de Colombia, includes Naval Aviation, Naval Infantry (Infanteria de
Marina, IM), and Coast Guard), Colombian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de
Colombia, FAC) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-24 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
service obligation - 18 months (2004)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 11,556,939

females age 16-49: 11,609,122 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 8,957,960

females age 16-49: 9,763,655 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 432,280

female: 416,051 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34






Transnational Issues ::Colombia




Disputes - international:


in December 2007, ICJ allocates San Andres, Providencia, and Santa
Catalina islands to Colombia under 1928 Treaty but does not rule on
82 degrees W meridian as maritime boundary with Nicaragua; managed
dispute with Venezuela over maritime boundary and
Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes Islands near the Gulf of
Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics, guerrilla, and
paramilitary activities penetrate all neighboring borders and have
caused Colombian citizens to flee mostly into neighboring countries;
Colombia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Jamaica, and the US assert various
claims to Bajo Nuevo and Serranilla Bank



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 1.8-3.5 million (conflict between government and illegal armed
groups and drug traffickers) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


illicit producer of coca, opium poppy, and cannabis; world's leading
coca cultivator with 167,000 hectares in coca cultivation in 2007, a
6% increase over 2006, producing a potential of 535 mt of pure
cocaine; the world's largest producer of coca derivatives; supplies
cocaine to nearly all of the US market and the great majority of
other international drug markets; in 2005, aerial eradication
dispensed herbicide to treat over 130,000 hectares but aggressive
replanting on the part of coca growers means Colombia remains a key
producer; a significant portion of narcotics proceeds are either
laundered or invested in Colombia through the black market peso
exchange; important supplier of heroin to the US market; opium poppy
cultivation is estimated to have fallen 25% between 2006 and 2007;
most Colombian heroin is destined for the US market (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Comoros  (Africa)

Introduction ::Comoros




Background:


Comoros has endured more than 20 coups or attempted coups since
gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of
Anjouan and Moheli declared independence from Comoros. In 1999,
military chief Col. AZALI seized power in a bloodless coup, and
helped negotiate the 2000 Fomboni Accords power-sharing agreement in
which the federal presidency rotates among the three islands, and
each island maintains its own local government. AZALI won the 2002
presidential election, and each island in the archipelago elected
its own president. AZALI stepped down in 2006 and President SAMBI
was elected to office. In 2007, Mohamed BACAR effected Anjouan's
de-facto secession from the Union, refusing to step down in favor of
fresh Anjouanais elections when Comoros' other islands held
legitimate elections in July. The African Union (AU) initially
attempted to resolve the political crisis by applying sanctions and
a naval blockade on Anjouan, but in March 2008, AU and Comoran
soldiers seized the island. The move was generally welcomed by the
island's inhabitants.







Geography ::Comoros




Location:


Southern Africa, group of islands at the northern mouth of the
Mozambique Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern
Madagascar and northern Mozambique



Geographic coordinates:


12 10 S, 44 15 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 2,235 sq km
country comparison to the world: 179
land: 2,235 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


340 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)



Terrain:


volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to low hills



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point: Karthala 2,360 m



Natural resources:


NEGL



Land use:


arable land: 35.87%

permanent crops: 23.32%

other: 40.81% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Total renewable water resources:


1.2 cu km (2003)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.01 cu km/yr (48%/5%/47%)

per capita: 13 cu m/yr (1999)



Natural hazards:


cyclones possible during rainy season (December to April); volcanic
activity on Grand Comore

volcanism: Karthala (elev. 2,361 m, 7,746 ft) on Grand Comore Island
last erupted in 2007; a 2005 eruption forced thousands of people to
be evacuated and produced a large ash cloud



Environment - current issues:


soil degradation and erosion results from crop cultivation on slopes
without proper terracing; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


important location at northern end of Mozambique Channel







People ::Comoros




Population:


773,407 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160


Age structure:


0-14 years: 42.2% (male 159,282/female 158,073)

15-64 years: 54.8% (male 203,533/female 208,591)

65 years and over: 3.1% (male 10,474/female 12,485) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 18.9 years

male: 18.6 years

female: 19.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.731% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


Birth rate:


34.71 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Death rate:


7.4 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 76


Urbanization:


urban population: 28% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 64.61 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 27
male: 72.41 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 56.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 63.83 years
country comparison to the world: 172
male: 61.41 years

female: 66.32 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


4.78 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA (2007 est.)



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Comoran(s)

adjective: Comoran



Ethnic groups:


Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava



Religions:


Sunni Muslim 98%, Roman Catholic 2%



Languages:


Arabic (official), French (official), Shikomoro (a blend of Swahili
and Arabic)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 56.5%

male: 63.6%

female: 49.3% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years

male: 12 years

female: 10 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


7.6% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 14






Government ::Comoros




Country name:


conventional long form: Union of the Comoros

conventional short form: Comoros

local long form: Udzima wa Komori (Comorian); Union des Comores
(French); Jumhuriyat al Qamar al Muttahidah (Arabic)

local short form: Komori (Comorian); Comores (French); Juzur al
Qamar (Arabic)



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Moroni

geographic coordinates: 11 42 S, 43 14 E

time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


3 islands and 4 municipalities*; Grande Comore (N'gazidja), Anjouan
(Ndzuwani), Domoni*, Fomboni*, Moheli (Mwali), Moroni*, Moutsamoudou*



Independence:


6 July 1975 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 6 July (1975)



Constitution:


23 December 2001



Legal system:


French and Islamic law in a new consolidated code; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May 2006)

head of government: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May
2006)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: as defined by the 2001 constitution, the presidency
rotates every four years among the elected presidents from the three
main islands in the Union; election last held on 14 May 2006 (next
to be held on 7 November 2010)

election results: Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI elected president; percent of
vote - Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI 58.0%, Ibrahim HALIDI 28.3%, Mohamed
DJAANFAMI 13.7%



Legislative branch:


unicameral Assembly of the Union (33 seats; 15 deputies are selected
by the individual islands' local assemblies and 18 by universal
suffrage to serve for five years);

elections: last held on 6 and 20 December 2009 (next to be held in
2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
pro-union coalition 19, autonomous coalition 4, independents 1; note
- 9 additional seats are filled by deputies from local island
assemblies



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members appointed by the
president, two members elected by the Federal Assembly, one elected
by the Council of each island, and others are former presidents of
the republic)



Political parties and leaders:


Camp of the Autonomous Islands or CdIA (a coalition of parties
organized by the islands' presidents in opposition to the Union
President); Convention for the Renewal of the Comoros or CRC [AZALI
Assowmani]; Front National pour la Justice or FNJ [Ahmed RACHID]
(Islamic party in opposition); Mouvement pour la Democratie et le
Progress or MDP-NGDC [Abbas DJOUSSOUF]; Parti Comorien pour la
Democratie et le Progress or PCDP [Ali MROUDJAE]; Rassemblement
National pour le Development or RND [Omar TAMOU, Abdoulhamid
AFFRAITANE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: environmentalists



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AMF, AOSIS, AU, COMESA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, InOC,
Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Representative to the UN and Ambassador to the US
Mohamed TOIHIRI

chancery: Mission to the US, 866 United Nations Plaza, Suite 418,
New York, NY 10017

telephone: [1] (212) 750-1637



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US does not have an embassy in Comoros; the ambassador to
Madagascar is accredited to Comoros



Flag description:


four equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), white, red, and blue,
with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist; centered within
the triangle is a white crescent with the convex side facing the
hoist and four white, five-pointed stars placed vertically in a line
between the points of the crescent; the horizontal bands and the
four stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago -
Mwali, N'gazidja, Nzwani, and Mahore (Mayotte - territorial
collectivity of France, but claimed by Comoros)

note: the crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols
of Islam



National anthem:


name: "Udzima wa ya Masiwa" (The Union of the Great Islands)

lyrics/music: Said Hachim SIDI ABDEREMANE/Said Hachim SIDI
ABDEREMANE and Kamildine ABDALLAH

note: adopted 1978







Economy ::Comoros




Economy - overview:


One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is made up of three
islands that have inadequate transportation links, a young and
rapidly increasing population, and few natural resources. The low
educational level of the labor force contributes to a subsistence
level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy
dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance. Agriculture,
including fishing, hunting, and forestry, contributes 40% to GDP,
employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports.
Export income is heavily reliant on the three main crops of vanilla,
cloves, and ylang-ylang and Comoros' export earnings are easily
disrupted by disasters such as fires. The country is not
self-sufficient in food production; rice, the main staple, accounts
for the bulk of imports. The government - which is hampered by
internal political disputes - lacks a comprehensive strategy to
attract foreign investment and is struggling to upgrade education
and technical training, privatize commercial and industrial
enterprises, improve health services, diversify exports, promote
tourism, and reduce the high population growth rate. Political
problems have inhibited growth, which has averaged only about 1% in
2006-09. Remittances from 150,000 Comorans abroad help supplement
GDP. In September 2009 the IMF approved Comoros for a three-year $21
million loan. The IMF gave generally positive reports of the
country's program performance as of October 2010. The African
Development Bank approved a $34.6 million debt-relief package loan
for Comoros in September 2010, and Comoros will attempt to qualifry
for debt relief in 2012 under the IMF and World Bank's Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$789.4 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207
$776.2 million (2009 est.)

$762.5 million (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$557 million (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 159
1.8% (2009 est.)

1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 216
$1,000 (2009 est.)

$1,000 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 40%

industry: 4%

services: 56% (2001 est.)



Labor force:


268,500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 80%

industry and services: 20% (1996 est.)



Unemployment rate:


20% (1996 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


Population below poverty line:


60% (2002 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 0.9%

highest 10%: 55.2% (2004)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Central bank discount rate:


2.21% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 81
5.36% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10.5% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85
10.5% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$104.7 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 179
$98.36 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$168.6 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 182
$143.7 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$79.75 million (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179
$60.57 million (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang, perfume essences, copra, coconuts,
bananas, cassava (tapioca)



Industries:


fishing, tourism, perfume distillation



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


22 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Electricity - consumption:


20.46 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Oil - imports:


766 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Current account balance:


$8 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Exports:


$32 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 202


Exports - commodities:


vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), cloves, copra



Exports - partners:


Turkey 25.2%, France 20.44%, Singapore 17.44%, Algeria 8.02%, Italy
6.09%, Saudi Arabia 5% (2009)



Imports:


$143 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 205


Imports - commodities:


rice and other foodstuffs, consumer goods, petroleum products,
cement, transport equipment



Imports - partners:


France 15.5%, China 14.66%, India 10.55%, UAE 7.88%, Pakistan 5.69%,
Kenya 4.51% (2009)



Debt - external:


$232 million (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173


Exchange rates:


Comoran francs (KMF) per US dollar - 361.4 (2007), 391.8 (2006),
395.6 (2005), 396.21 (2004), 435.9 (2003)

note: the Comoran franc is pegged to the euro at a rate of 491.9677
Comoran francs per euro







Communications ::Comoros




Telephones - main lines in use:


25,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 183


Telephones - mobile cellular:


100,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 185


Telephone system:


general assessment: sparse system of microwave radio relay and HF
radiotelephone communication stations

domestic: fixed-line connections only about 3 per 100 persons;
mobile cellular usage about 15 per 100 persons

international: country code - 269; HF radiotelephone communications
to Madagascar and Reunion



Broadcast media:


national state-owned TV station and a TV station run by Anjouan
regional government; national state-owned radio; regional
governments on the islands of Grande Comore and Anjouan each operate
a radio station; a few independent and small community radio
stations operate on the islands of Grande Comore and Moheli, and
these two islands have access to Mayotte Radio and French TV (2007)



Internet country code:


.km



Internet hosts:


14 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 219


Internet users:


24,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 186






Transportation ::Comoros




Airports:


4 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 189


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 880 km
country comparison to the world: 184
paved: 673 km

unpaved: 207 km (2002)



Merchant marine:


total: 177
country comparison to the world: 37
by type: bulk carrier 19, cargo 102, carrier 5, chemical tanker 6,
container 2, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 15,
refrigerated cargo 12, roll on/roll off 12

foreign-owned: 98 (Bangladesh 1, Bulgaria 8, China 1, Cyprus 2,
Greece 3, Kenya 1, Kuwait 1, Latvia 1, Lebanon 3, Lithuania 3,
Monaco 1, Nigeria 1, Norway 2, Pakistan 3, Russia 21, Syria 6,
Turkey 16, UAE 11, UK 1, Ukraine 10, US 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Mayotte, Mutsamudu







Military ::Comoros




Military branches:


Army of National Development (AND): Comoran Security Force, Comoran
Coast Guard, Comoran Federal Police (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for 2-year voluntary military service; no
conscription; women first inducted into the Army in 2004 (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 178,670

females age 16-49: 177,811 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 130,064

females age 16-49: 140,600 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 8,519

female: 8,498 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.8% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 50






Transnational Issues ::Comoros




Disputes - international:


claims French-administered Mayotte and challenges France's and
Madagascar's claims to Banc du Geyser, a drying reef in the
Mozambique Channel; in May 2008, African Union forces are called in
to assist the Comoros military recapture Anjouan Island from rebels
who seized it in 2001









page last updated on January 10, 2011

======================================================================




@Congo, Democratic Republic of the  (Africa)

Introduction ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Background:


Established as a Belgian colony in 1908, the Republic of the Congo
gained its independence in 1960, but its early years were marred by
political and social instability. Col. Joseph MOBUTU seized power
and declared himself president in a November 1965 coup. He
subsequently changed his name - to MOBUTU Sese Seko - as well as
that of the country - to Zaire. MOBUTU retained his position for 32
years through several sham elections, as well as through brutal
force. Ethnic strife and civil war, touched off by a massive inflow
of refugees in 1994 from fighting in Rwanda and Burundi, led in May
1997 to the toppling of the MOBUTU regime by a rebellion backed by
Rwanda and Uganda and fronted by Laurent KABILA. He renamed the
country the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), but in August
1998 his regime was itself challenged by a second insurrection again
backed by Rwanda and Uganda. Troops from Angola, Chad, Namibia,
Sudan, and Zimbabwe intervened to support KABILA's regime. A
cease-fire was signed in July 1999 by the DRC, Congolese armed rebel
groups, Angola, Namibia, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zimbabwe but sporadic
fighting continued. Laurent KABILA was assassinated in January 2001
and his son, Joseph KABILA, was named head of state. In October
2002, the new president was successful in negotiating the withdrawal
of Rwandan forces occupying eastern Congo; two months later, the
Pretoria Accord was signed by all remaining warring parties to end
the fighting and establish a government of national unity. A
transitional government was set up in July 2003. Joseph KABILA as
president and four vice presidents represented the former
government, former rebel groups, the political opposition, and civil
society. The transitional government held a successful
constitutional referendum in December 2005 and elections for the
presidency, National Assembly, and provincial legislatures in 2006.
The National Assembly was installed in September 2006 and KABILA was
inaugurated president in December 2006. Provincial assemblies were
constituted in early 2007, and elected governors and national
senators in January 2007.







Geography ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Location:


Central Africa, northeast of Angola



Geographic coordinates:


0 00 N, 25 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 2,344,858 sq km
country comparison to the world: 12
land: 2,267,048 sq km

water: 77,810 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US



Land boundaries:


total: 10,730 km

border countries: Angola 2,511 km (of which 225 km is the boundary
of Angola's discontiguous Cabinda Province), Burundi 233 km, Central
African Republic 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda
217 km, Sudan 628 km, Tanzania 459 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia 1,930 km



Coastline:


37 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: boundaries with neighbors



Climate:


tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler and drier
in southern highlands; cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north
of Equator - wet season (April to October), dry season (December to
February); south of Equator - wet season (November to March), dry
season (April to October)



Terrain:


vast central basin is a low-lying plateau; mountains in east



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley) 5,110
m



Natural resources:


cobalt, copper, niobium, tantalum, petroleum, industrial and gem
diamonds, gold, silver, zinc, manganese, tin, uranium, coal,
hydropower, timber



Land use:


arable land: 2.86%

permanent crops: 0.47%

other: 96.67% (2005)



Irrigated land:


110 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


1,283 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.36 cu km/yr (53%/17%/31%)

per capita: 6 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


periodic droughts in south; Congo River floods (seasonal); in the
east, in the Great Rift Valley, there are active volcanoes

volcanism: Nyiragongo (elev. 3,470 m, 11,384 ft), which erupted in
2002 and is experiencing ongoing activity, poses a major threat to
the city of Goma, home to a quarter of a million people; the volcano
produces unusually fast-moving lava, known to travel up to 100 km
(60 mi)/hr; Nyiragongo has been deemed a "Decade Volcano" by the
International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the
Earth's Interior, worthy of study due to its explosive history and
close proximity to human populations; its neighbor, Nyamuragira,
which erupted in 2010, is Africa's most active volcano; Visoke is
the only other historically active volcano



Environment - current issues:


poaching threatens wildlife populations; water pollution;
deforestation; refugees responsible for significant deforestation,
soil erosion, and wildlife poaching; mining of minerals (coltan - a
mineral used in creating capacitors, diamonds, and gold) causing
environmental damage



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification



Geography - note:


straddles equator; has narrow strip of land that controls the lower
Congo River and is only outlet to South Atlantic Ocean; dense
tropical rain forest in central river basin and eastern highlands







People ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Population:


70,916,439
country comparison to the world: 19
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 46.9% (male 16,161,301/female 16,038,024)

15-64 years: 50.6% (male 17,289,453/female 17,483,027)

65 years and over: 2.5% (male 699,667/female 1,021,070) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.5 years

male: 16.3 years

female: 16.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


3.165% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


Birth rate:


42.26 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9


Death rate:


11.39 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Net migration rate:


0.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Urbanization:


urban population: 34% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 5.1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 79.36 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 15
male: 87.13 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 71.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 54.73 years
country comparison to the world: 198
male: 52.93 years

female: 56.59 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


6.11 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


4.2% (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


1.1 million (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 10


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


100,000 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria, plague, and African trypanosomiasis
(sleeping sickness)

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Congolese (singular and plural)

adjective: Congolese or Congo



Ethnic groups:


over 200 African ethnic groups of which the majority are Bantu; the
four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba, Kongo (all Bantu), and the
Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about 45% of the population



Religions:


Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 20%, Kimbanguist 10%, Muslim 10%,
other (includes syncretic sects and indigenous beliefs) 10%



Languages:


French (official), Lingala (a lingua franca trade language),
Kingwana (a dialect of Kiswahili or Swahili), Kikongo, Tshiluba



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write French, Lingala,
Kingwana, or Tshiluba

total population: 67.2%

male: 80.9%

female: 54.1% (2001 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 8 years

male: 9 years

female: 6 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


NA







Government ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Country name:


conventional long form: Democratic Republic of the Congo

conventional short form: DRC

local long form: Republique Democratique du Congo

local short form: RDC

former: Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville,
Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire

abbreviation: DRC



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Kinshasa

geographic coordinates: 4 19 S, 15 18 E

time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


10 provinces (provinces, singular - province) and 1 city* (ville);
Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur, Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental,
Katanga, Kinshasa*, Maniema, Nord-Kivu, Orientale, Sud-Kivu

note: according to the Constitution adopted in December 2005, the
current administrative divisions will be subdivided into 26 new
provinces by 2009



Independence:


30 June 1960 (from Belgium)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 30 June (1960)



Constitution:


18 February 2006



Legal system:


civil law based on Belgian law with Napoleonic Civil Code influence;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Joseph KABILA (since 17 January 2001);

head of government: Prime Minister Adolphe MUZITO (since 10 October
2008)

cabinet: Ministers of State appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: under the new constitution the president elected by
popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
elections last held on 30 July 2006 and on 29 October 2006 (next to
be held on 27 November 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president

election results: Joseph KABILA elected president; percent of vote
(second round) - Joseph KABILA 58%, Jean-Pierre BEMBA Gombo 42%

note: Joseph KABILA succeeded his father, Laurent Desire KABILA,
following the latter's assassination in January 2001; negotiations
with rebel leaders led to the establishment of a transitional
government in July 2003 with free elections held on 30 July 2006 and
a run-off on 29 October 2006 confirming Joseph KABILA as president



Legislative branch:


bicameral legislature consists of a Senate (108 seats; members
elected by provincial assemblies to serve five-year terms) and a
National Assembly (500 seats; 61 members elected by majority vote in
single-member constituencies, 439 members elected by open list
proportional-representation in multi-member constituencies to serve
five-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 19 January 2007 (next to be held on
27 November 2011); National Assembly - last held on 30 July 2006
(next to be held on 27 November 2011)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PPRD 22, MLC 14, FR 7, RCD 7, PDC 6, CDC 3, MSR 3, PALU 2,
independents 26, others 18 (political parties that won a single
seat); National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PPRD 111, MLC 64, PALU 34, MSR 27, FR 26, RCD 15,
independents 63, others 160 (includes 63 political parties that won
10 or fewer seats)



Judicial branch:


Constitutional Court; Appeals Court or Cour de Cassation; Council of
State; High Military Court; plus civil and military courts and
tribunals



Political parties and leaders:


Christian Democrat Party or PDC [Jose ENDUNDO]; Congolese Rally for
Democracy or RCD [Azarias RUBERWA]; Convention of Christian
Democrats or CDC; Forces of Renewal or FR [Mbusa NYAMWISI]; Movement
for the Liberation of the Congo or MLC [Jean-Pierre BEMBA]; People's
Party for Reconstruction and Democracy or PPRD [Joseph KABILA];
Social Movement for Renewal or MSR [Pierre LUMBI]; Unified Lumumbist
Party or PALU [Antoine GIZENGA]; Union for Democracy and Social
Progress or UDPS [Etienne TSHISEKEDI]; Union of Mobutuist Democrats
or UDEMO [MOBUTU Nzanga]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


MONUC - UN organization working with the government; FARDC (Forces
Armees de la Republique Democratique du Congo) - Army of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo which commits atrocities on
citizens; FDL (Forces Democratiques de Liberation du Rwanda) -
Rwandan militia group



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA,
SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Faida MITIFU

chancery: Suite 601, 1726 M Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20036

telephone: [1] (202) 234-7690 through 7691

FAX: [1] (202) 234-2609



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Samuel BROCK

embassy: 310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa

mailing address: Unit 31550, APO AE 09828

telephone: [243] (81) 225-5872

FAX: [243] (81) 301-0561



Flag description:


sky blue field divided diagonally from the lower hoist corner to
upper fly corner by a red stripe bordered by two narrow yellow
stripes; a yellow, five-pointed star appears in the upper hoist
corner; blue represents peace and hope, red the blood of the
country's martyrs, and yellow the country's wealth and prosperity;
the star symbolizes unity and the brilliant future for the country



National anthem:


name: "Debout Congolaise" (Arise Congolese)

lyrics/music: Joseph LUTUMBA/Simon-Pierre BOKA di Mpasi Londi

note: adopted 1960; the anthem was replaced during the period in
which the country was known as Zaire, but was readopted in 1997







Economy ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Economy - overview:


The economy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo - a nation
endowed with vast potential wealth - is slowly recovering from
decades of decline. Systemic corruption since independence in 1960
and conflict that began in May 1997 has dramatically reduced
national output and government revenue, increased external debt, and
resulted in the deaths of more than 5 million people from violence,
famine, and disease. Foreign businesses curtailed operations due to
uncertainty about the outcome of the conflict, lack of
infrastructure, and the difficult operating environment. Conditions
began to improve in late 2002 with the withdrawal of a large portion
of the invading foreign troops. The transitional government reopened
relations with international financial institutions and
international donors, and President KABILA began implementing
reforms. Progress has been slow and the International Monetary Fund
curtailed their program for the DRC at the end of March 2006 because
of fiscal overruns. Much economic activity still occurs in the
informal sector, and is not reflected in GDP data. Renewed activity
in the mining sector, the source of most export income, boosted
Kinshasa's fiscal position and GDP growth from 2006-2008, however,
the government's review of mining contracts that began in 2006,
combined with a fall in world market prices for the DRC's key
mineral exports temporarily weakened output in 2009, leading to a
balance of payments crisis. The recovery in mineral prices beginning
in mid 2009 boosted mineral exports, and emergency funds from the
IMF boosted foreign reserves. An uncertain legal framework,
corruption, a lack of transparency in government policy are
long-term problems for the mining sector and the economy as a whole.
The global recession cut economic growth in 2009 to less than half
its 2008 level, but growth returned to 3% in 2010. The DRC signed a
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF in 2009 and
received $12 billion in multilateral and bilateral debt relief in
2010.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$22.92 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119
$22.25 billion (2009 est.)

$21.64 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$12.6 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
2.8% (2009 est.)

6.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 229
$300 (2009 est.)

$300 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 37.4%

industry: 26%

services: 36.6% (2008 est.)



Labor force:


23.53 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%



Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


NA% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.3%

highest 10%: 34.7% (2006)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


26.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 223
46.2% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


70% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 2
40% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


65.42% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4
43.15% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$613.9 million (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 152
$597 million (31 December 2007)



Stock of broad money:


$1.562 billion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147
$1.275 billion (31 December 2007 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$NA (31 December 2008)

$928.5 million (31 December 2008)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber, tea, quinine, cassava (tapioca),
palm oil, bananas, root crops, corn, fruits; wood products



Industries:


mining (diamonds, gold, copper, cobalt, coltan, zinc, tin,
diamonds), mineral processing, consumer products (including
textiles, footwear, cigarettes, processed foods and beverages),
cement, commercial ship repair



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


8.217 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Electricity - consumption:


5.997 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Electricity - exports:


1.916 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


6 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


16,360 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78


Oil - consumption:


10,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 148


Oil - exports:


20,090 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Oil - imports:


11,350 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 136


Oil - proved reserves:


180 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Natural gas - proved reserves:


991.1 million cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Current account balance:


-$1.47 billion (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150
-$402 million (2007 est.)



Exports:


$3.8 billion (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119
$6.6 billion (2008 est.)



Exports - commodities:


diamonds, gold, copper, cobalt, wood products, crude oil, coffee



Exports - partners:


China 46.75%, US 15.35%, Belgium 10.68%, Zambia 5.78%, Finland 4.38%
(2009)



Imports:


$5.2 billion (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111
$6.7 billion (2008 est.)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, mining and other machinery, transport equipment, fuels



Imports - partners:


South Africa 18.22%, Belgium 10.2%, China 8.34%, Zambia 7.77%,
France 7.28%, Zimbabwe 6.52%, Kenya 5.48%, Netherlands 4.13%, Italy
3.96% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$1.01 billion (March 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110
$1 billion (December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$4.3 billion (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
$12.7 billion (2008 est.)



Exchange rates:


Congolese francs (CDF) per US dollar - 930 (2010), 810 (2009), 559
(2008), 516 (2007), 464.69 (2006)







Communications ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Telephones - main lines in use:


40,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 167


Telephones - mobile cellular:


10.163 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 63


Telephone system:


general assessment: barely adequate wire and microwave radio relay
service in and between urban areas; domestic satellite system with
14 earth stations; inadequate fixed line infrastructure

domestic: state-owned operator providing less than 1 fixed-line
connection per 1000 persons; given the backdrop of a wholly
inadequate fixed-line infrastructure, the use of mobile-cellular
services has surged and subscribership in 2009 exceeded 10 million -
roughly 15 per 100 persons

international: country code - 243; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-owned TV broadcast station with near national coverage; more
than a dozen privately-owned TV stations with 2 having near national
coverage; 2 state-owned radio stations are supplemented by more than
100 private radio stations; transmissions of at least 2
international broadcasters are available (2007)



Internet country code:


.cd



Internet hosts:


3,006 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 146


Internet users:


290,000 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 131






Transportation ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Airports:


198 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 31


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 26

over 3,047 m: 4

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 17

914 to 1,523 m: 2

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 172

1,524 to 2,437 m: 20

914 to 1,523 m: 91

under 914 m: 61 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 37 km; oil 39 km; refined products 756 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 4,007 km
country comparison to the world: 42
narrow gauge: 3,882 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km
1.000-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 153,497 km
country comparison to the world: 34
paved: 2,794 km

unpaved: 150,703 km (2004)



Waterways:


15,000 km (including the Congo, its tributaries, and unconnected
lakes) (2009)
country comparison to the world: 8


Merchant marine:


total: 1
country comparison to the world: 158
by type: petroleum tanker 1

foreign-owned: 1 (Republic of the Congo 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Banana, Boma, Bukavu, Bumba, Goma, Kalemie, Kindu, Kinshasa,
Kisangani, Matadi, Mbandaka







Military ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Military branches:


Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Forces
d'Armees de la Republique Democratique du Congo, FARDC): Army,
National Navy (La Marine Nationale), Congolese Air Force (Force
Aerienne Congolaise, FAC) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-45 years of age for voluntary military service (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 15,192,858 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 9,301,818

females age 16-49: 9,440,111 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 842,020

female: 839,044 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.5% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 59






Transnational Issues ::Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Disputes - international:


heads of the Great Lakes states and UN pledged in 2004 to abate
tribal, rebel, and militia fighting in the region, including
northeast Congo, where the UN Organization Mission in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (MONUC), organized in 1999, maintains over
16,500 uniformed peacekeepers; members of Uganda's Lords Resistance
Army forces continue to seek refuge in Congo's Garamba National Park
as peace talks with the Uganda government evolve; the location of
the boundary in the broad Congo River with the Republic of the Congo
is indefinite except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area; Uganda
and DROC dispute Rukwanzi island in Lake Albert and other areas on
the Semliki River with hydrocarbon potential; boundary commission
continues discussions over Congolese-administered triangle of land
on the right bank of the Lunkinda river claimed by Zambia near the
DROC village of Pweto



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 132,295 (Angola); 37,313 (Rwanda);
17,777 (Burundi); 13,904 (Uganda); 6,181 (Sudan); 5,243 (Republic of
Congo)

IDPs: 1.4 million (fighting between government forces and rebels
since mid-1990s; most IDPs are in eastern provinces) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Democratic Republic of the Congo is a source and
destination country for men, women, and children subjected to
trafficking for the purposes of forced labor and forced
prostitution; the majority of this trafficking is internal, and much
of it is perpetrated by armed groups and government forces outside
government control within the country's unstable eastern provinces

tier rating: Tier 3 - Government of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the
elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to
do so; the government did not show evidence of progress in
prosecuting and punishing labor or sex trafficking offenders,
including members of its own armed forces; providing protective
services for the vast majority of trafficking victims; or raising
public awareness of human trafficking; in addition, the government's
anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts decreased during the
reporting period (2010)



Illicit drugs:


one of Africa's biggest producers of cannabis, but mostly for
domestic consumption; traffickers exploit lax shipping controls to
transit pseudoephedrine through the capital; while rampant
corruption and inadequate supervision leaves the banking system
vulnerable to money laundering, the lack of a well-developed
financial system limits the country's utility as a money-laundering
center (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Congo, Republic of the  (Africa)

Introduction ::Congo, Republic of the




Background:


Upon independence in 1960, the former French region of Middle Congo
became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter century of
experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a
democratically elected government took office in 1992. A brief civil
war in 1997 restored former Marxist President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO,
and ushered in a period of ethnic and political unrest.
Southern-based rebel groups agreed to a final peace accord in March
2003, but the calm is tenuous and refugees continue to present a
humanitarian crisis. The Republic of Congo was once one of Africa's
largest petroleum producers, but with declining production it will
need new offshore oil finds to sustain its oil earnings over the
long term.







Geography ::Congo, Republic of the




Location:


Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Angola
and Gabon



Geographic coordinates:


1 00 S, 15 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 342,000 sq km
country comparison to the world: 63
land: 341,500 sq km

water: 500 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Montana



Land boundaries:


total: 5,504 km

border countries: Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African
Republic 467 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Gabon
1,903 km



Coastline:


169 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry season (June to
October); persistent high temperatures and humidity; particularly
enervating climate astride the Equator



Terrain:


coastal plain, southern basin, central plateau, northern basin



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mount Berongou 903 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc, uranium, copper, phosphates,
gold, magnesium, natural gas, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 1.45%

permanent crops: 0.15%

other: 98.4% (2005)



Irrigated land:


20 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


832 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.03 cu km/yr (59%/29%/12%)

per capita: 8 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


seasonal flooding



Environment - current issues:


air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from the
dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not potable; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


about 70% of the population lives in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, or
along the railroad between them







People ::Congo, Republic of the




Population:


4,125,916
country comparison to the world: 126
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 45.9% (male 927,599/female 915,540)

15-64 years: 51.2% (male 1,021,975/female 1,034,119)

65 years and over: 2.8% (male 46,687/female 66,889) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.9 years

male: 16.7 years

female: 17.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.807% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Birth rate:


41.01 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


Death rate:


11.75 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Net migration rate:


-1.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 161


Urbanization:


urban population: 61% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 77.93 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 17
male: 83.39 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 72.31 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 54.54 years
country comparison to the world: 199
male: 53.27 years

female: 55.84 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


5.77 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3.5% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


79,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


6,400 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
sickness)

animal contact disease: rabies

water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Congolese (singular and plural)

adjective: Congolese or Congo



Ethnic groups:


Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke 17%, Europeans and other 3%



Religions:


Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%



Languages:


French (official), Lingala and Monokutuba (lingua franca trade
languages), many local languages and dialects (of which Kikongo is
the most widespread)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 83.8%

male: 89.6%

female: 78.4% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 9 years

male: 10 years

female: 9 years (2003)



Education expenditures:


1.9% of GDP (2005)
country comparison to the world: 174






Government ::Congo, Republic of the




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of the Congo

conventional short form: Congo (Brazzaville)

local long form: Republique du Congo

local short form: none

former: Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Brazzaville

geographic coordinates: 4 15 S, 15 17 E

time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


10 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 commune*; Bouenza,
Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Cuvette-Ouest, Kouilou, Lekoumou, Likouala,
Niari, Plateaux, Pool, Sangha



Independence:


15 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 15 August (1960)



Constitution:


approved by referendum 20 January 2002



Legal system:


based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Denis SASSOU-Nguesso (since 25 October
1997, following the civil war in which he toppled elected president
Pascal LISSOUBA); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government

head of government: President Denis SASSOU-Nguesso (since 25 October
1997); note - the position of prime minister was abolished in
September 2009

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 12 July 2009
(next to be held in 2016)

election results: Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO reelected president; percent
of vote - Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO 78.6%, Joseph Kignoumbi Kia MBOUNGOU
7.5%, Nicephore Fylla de SAINT-EUDES 7%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (72 seats; members
elected by indirect vote to serve five-year terms) and the National
Assembly (137 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 5 August 2008 (next to be held in
2013); National Assembly - last held on 24 June and 5 August 2007
(next to be held in 2012)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - RMP 33, FDU 23, UPADS 2, independents 7, other 7; National
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PCT 46,
MCDDI 11, UPADS 11, MAR 5, MSD 5, independents 37, other 22



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supreme



Political parties and leaders:


Action Movement for Renewal or MAR; Congolese Labour Party or PCT;
Congolese Movement for Democracy and Integral Development or MCDDI
[Michel MAMPOUYA]; Movement for Solidarity and Development or MSD;
Pan-African Union for Social Development or UPADS [Martin MBERI];
Rally for Democracy and the Republic or RDR [Raymond Damasge
NGOLLO]; Rally for Democracy and Social Progress or RDPS
[Jean-Pierre Thystere TCHICAYA, president]; Rally of the
Presidential Majority or RMP; Union for Democracy and Republic or
UDR; United Democratic Forces or FDU [Sebastian EBAO]; many less
important parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Congolese Trade Union Congress or CSC; General Union of Congolese
Pupils and Students or UGEEC; Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women
or URFC; Union of Congolese Socialist Youth or UJSC



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Serge MOMBOULI

chancery: 4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone: [1] (202) 726-5500

FAX: [1] (202) 726-1860



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Allan EASTHAM

embassy: Boulevard de la Revolution, BDEAC Building, 4th Floor,
Brazzaville; note - a new embassy is expected to open in 2009

mailing address: B.P. 1015, Brazzaville

telephone: [242] 281-1481, 281-3368; note - until the new embassy in
Brazzaville becomes operational, some duties will still be handled
in the US embassy in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo



Flag description:


divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a yellow band; the
upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is red;
green symbolizes agriculture and forests, yellow the friendship and
nobility of the people, red is unexplained but has been associated
with the struggle for independence

note: uses the popular Pan-African colors of Ethiopia



National anthem:


name: "La Congolaise" (The Congolese)

lyrics/music: Jacques TONDRA and Georges KIBANGHI/Jean ROYER and
Joseph SPADILIERE

note: originally adopted 1959, restored 1991







Economy ::Congo, Republic of the




Economy - overview:


The economy is a mixture of subsistence agriculture, an industrial
sector based largely on oil and support services, and government
spending. Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the
economy, providing a major share of government revenues and exports.
In the early 1980s, rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the
government to finance large-scale development projects with GDP
growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest rates in Africa.
Characterized by budget problems and overstaffing, the government
has mortgaged a substantial portion of its oil earnings through
oil-backed loans that have contributed to a growing debt burden and
chronic revenue shortfalls. Economic reform efforts have been
undertaken with the support of international organizations, notably
the World Bank and the IMF. However, the reform program came to a
halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted. Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, who
returned to power when the war ended in October 1997, publicly
expressed interest in moving forward on economic reforms and
privatization and in renewing cooperation with international
financial institutions. Economic progress was badly hurt by slumping
oil prices and the resumption of armed conflict in December 1998,
which worsened the republic's budget deficit. The current
administration presides over an uneasy internal peace and faces
difficult economic challenges of stimulating recovery and reducing
poverty. The drop in oil prices during the global crisis reduced oil
revenue by about 30%, but the subsequent recovery of oil prices has
boosted the economy's GDP and near-term prospects. In March 2006,
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) treatment for Congo,
receiving $1.9 billion in debt relief under the program in 2010.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$17.45 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131
$15.79 billion (2009 est.)

$14.67 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$11.88 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


10.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4
7.6% (2009 est.)

5.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$4,200 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157
$3,900 (2009 est.)

$3,800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 4.4%

industry: 63.7%

services: 32% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.514 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 129


Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.1%

highest 10%: 37.1% (2005)



Investment (gross fixed):


41.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147
4.3% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 102
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$2.403 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 118
$1.887 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$2.746 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 136
$2.178 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.58 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 133
$1.889 billion (31 December 2008)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn, peanuts, vegetables, coffee,
cocoa; forest products



Industries:


petroleum extraction, cement, lumber, brewing, sugar, palm oil,
soap, flour, cigarettes



Industrial production growth rate:


12% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 8


Electricity - production:


400 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


Electricity - consumption:


471 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


449 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


274,400 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Oil - consumption:


10,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150


Oil - exports:


241,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Oil - imports:


2,136 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Oil - proved reserves:


1.6 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Natural gas - production:


180 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Natural gas - consumption:


180 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Natural gas - proved reserves:


90.61 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 55


Current account balance:


-$569 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
-$1.195 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$9.2 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90
$7.425 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum, lumber, plywood, sugar, cocoa, coffee, diamonds



Exports - partners:


US 40.08%, China 30.18%, France 8.17%, Taiwan 6.4%, India 4.2% (2009)



Imports:


$3.607 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 133
$3.259 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


capital equipment, construction materials, foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


France 20.64%, China 14.54%, Italy 9.56%, US 9.02%, India 5.55%,
Belgium 4.51% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$4.123 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
$3.806 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$5 billion (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Exchange rates:


Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale francs per US dollar -
507.71 (2010), 472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 483.6 (2007), 522.59
(2006)







Communications ::Congo, Republic of the




Telephones - main lines in use:


24,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 185


Telephones - mobile cellular:


2.171 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 131


Telephone system:


general assessment: primary network consists of microwave radio
relay and coaxial cable with services barely adequate for government
use; key exchanges are in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, and Loubomo;
intercity lines frequently out of order

domestic: fixed-line infrastructure inadequate providing less than 1
connection per 100 persons; in the absence of an adequate fixed line
infrastructure, mobile-cellular subscribership has surged and now
exceeds 50 per 100 persons

international: country code - 242; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


1 state-owned TV and 3 state-owned radio stations; several
privately-owned TV and radio stations; satellite TV service is
available; rebroadcasts of several international broadcasters are
available (2007)



Internet country code:


.cg



Internet hosts:


42 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 213


Internet users:


245,200 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 136






Transportation ::Congo, Republic of the




Airports:


25 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 130


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 6

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 19

1,524 to 2,437 m: 8

914 to 1,523 m: 10

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 7 km; oil 211 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 795 km
country comparison to the world: 103
narrow gauge: 795 km 1.067-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 17,289 km
country comparison to the world: 118
paved: 864 km

unpaved: 16,425 km (2004)



Waterways:


1,120 km (commercially navigable on Congo and Oubanqui rivers above
Brazzaville; there are many ferries across the river to Kinshasa;
the Congo south of Brazzaville-Kinshasa to the coast is not
navigable because of rapids, thereby necessitating a rail connection
to Pointe Noire; other rivers are used for local traffic only) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 62


Merchant marine:


registered in other countries: 1 (Democratic Republic of the Congo
1) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 163


Ports and terminals:


Brazzaville, Djeno, Impfondo, Ouesso, Oyo, Pointe-Noire







Military ::Congo, Republic of the




Military branches:


Congolese Armed Forces (Forces Armees Congolaises, FAC): Army (Armee
de Terre), Navy, Congolese Air Force (Armee de l'Air Congolaise),
Gendarmerie, Special Presidential Security Guard (GSSP) (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; women allowed to
serve (2007)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 898,850

females age 16-49: 886,063 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 557,764

females age 16-49: 546,755 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 48,365

female: 47,874 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.9% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 137






Transnational Issues ::Congo, Republic of the




Disputes - international:


the location of the boundary in the broad Congo River with the
Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite except in the Pool
Malebo/Stanley Pool area



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 46,341 (Democratic Republic of Congo);
6,564 (Rwanda)

IDPs: 48,000 (multiple civil wars since 1992; most IDPs are ethnic
Lari) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Republic of the Congo is a source and destination
country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
commercial sexual exploitation; girls are trafficked from rural
areas within the country for commercial sexual exploitation, forced
street vending, and domestic servitude; children are trafficked from
other African countries for domestic servitude, forced market
vending, and forced labor in the fishing industry

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Republic of the Congo is on the
Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to show evidence of increasing
efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; struggling to
recover from six years of civil conflict that ended in 2003, the
Republic of the Congo's capacity to address trafficking is
handicapped; the government neither monitors its borders for
trafficking activity nor provides specialized anti-trafficking
training for law enforcement officials; the government does not
encourage victims to assist in trafficking investigations or
prosecutions, and has not taken measures to reduce demand for
commercial sex acts in the Republic of the Congo (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Cook Islands  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Cook Islands




Background:


Named after Captain COOK, who sighted them in 1770, the islands
became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900, administrative
control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965, residents chose
self-government in free association with New Zealand. The emigration
of skilled workers to New Zealand and government deficits are
continuing problems.







Geography ::Cook Islands




Location:


Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way
between Hawaii and New Zealand



Geographic coordinates:


21 14 S, 159 46 W



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: 236 sq km
country comparison to the world: 214
land: 236 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


1.3 times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


120 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


tropical oceanic; moderated by trade winds; a dry season from April
to November and a more humid season from December to March



Terrain:


low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in south



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Te Manga 652 m



Natural resources:


NEGL



Land use:


arable land: 16.67%

permanent crops: 8.33%

other: 75% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


typhoons (November to March)



Environment - current issues:


NA



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection



Geography - note:


the northern Cook Islands are seven low-lying, sparsely populated,
coral atolls; the southern Cook Islands, where most of the
population lives, consist of eight elevated, fertile, volcanic
isles, including the largest, Rarotonga, at 67 sq km







People ::Cook Islands




Population:


11,488 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 223


Age structure:


0-14 years: 27.1% (male 1,704/female 1,508)

15-64 years: 63.7% (male 3,898/female 3,664)

65 years and over: 9.2% (male 540/female 556) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 31.2 years

male: 30.5 years

female: 31.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-3.256% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 231


Birth rate:


15.67 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132


Death rate:


7.22 deaths/1,000 population NA
country comparison to the world: 127


Urbanization:


urban population: 74% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: -0.7% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.046 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.07 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.96 male(s)/female

total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 16.33 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 116
male: 19.88 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 12.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 74.47 years
country comparison to the world: 94
male: 71.69 years

female: 77.38 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.43 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Cook Islander(s)

adjective: Cook Islander



Ethnic groups:


Cook Island Maori (Polynesian) 87.7%, part Cook Island Maori 5.8%,
other 6.5% (2001 census)



Religions:


Cook Islands Christian Church 55.9%, Roman Catholic 16.8%,
Seventh-Day Adventists 7.9%, Church of Latter Day Saints 3.8%, other
Protestant 5.8%, other 4.2%, unspecified 2.6%, none 3% (2001 census)



Languages:


English (official), Maori



Literacy:


definition: NA

total population: 95%

male: NA

female: NA



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 10 years

male: 10 years

female: 10 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


0.2% of GDP (2001)
country comparison to the world: 186


People - note:


2001 census counted a resident population of 15,017







Government ::Cook Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Cook Islands

former: Harvey Islands



Dependency status:


self-governing in free association with New Zealand; Cook Islands is
fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains
responsibility for external affairs and defense in consultation with
the Cook Islands



Government type:


self-governing parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Avarua

geographic coordinates: 21 12 S, 159 46 W

time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none



Independence:


none (became self-governing in free association with New Zealand on
4 August 1965 and has the right at any time to move to full
independence by unilateral action)



National holiday:


Constitution Day, first Monday in August (1965)



Constitution:


4 August 1965



Legal system:


based on New Zealand law and English common law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal (adult)



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
represented by Sir Frederick GOODWIN (since 9 February 2001); New
Zealand High Commissioner Linda TE PUNI (since 3 June 2010)

head of government: Prime Minister Henry PUNA (since 30 November
2010)

cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister; collectively
responsible to Parliament
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; the UK representative
appointed by the monarch; the New Zealand high commissioner
appointed by the New Zealand Government; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition usually becomes prime minister



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of a House of Ariki, or upper house,
made up of traditional leaders and a Legislative Assembly, or lower
house, (24 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year
terms)

note: the House of Ariki advises on traditional matters and
maintains considerable influence but has no legislative powers

elections: last held on 17 November 2010 (next to be held by 2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CIP 16, Demo 8



Judicial branch:


High Court



Political parties and leaders:


Cook Islands Party or CIP [Henry PUNA]; Democratic Party or Demo
[Dr. Terepai MAOATE]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Reform Conference (lobby for political system changes)

other: various groups lobbying for political change



International organization participation:


ACP, ADB, AOSIS, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IMO, IMSO, IOC,
ITUC, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (self-governing in free association with New Zealand)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (self-governing in free association with New Zealand)



Flag description:


blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a
large circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for every island)
centered in the outer half of the flag



National anthem:


name: "Te Atua Mou E" (To God Almighty)

lyrics/music: Tepaeru Te RITO/Thomas DAVIS

note: adopted 1982; as prime minister, Sir Thomas DAVIS composed the
anthem; his wife, a tribal chief, wrote the lyrics







Economy ::Cook Islands




Economy - overview:


Like many other South Pacific island nations, the Cook Islands'
economic development is hindered by the isolation of the country
from foreign markets, the limited size of domestic markets, lack of
natural resources, periodic devastation from natural disasters, and
inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture, employing more than
one-quarter of the working population, provides the economic base
with major exports made up of copra and citrus fruit. Black pearls
are the Cook Islands' leading export. Manufacturing activities are
limited to fruit processing, clothing, and handicrafts. Trade
deficits are offset by remittances from emigrants and by foreign aid
overwhelmingly from New Zealand. In the 1980s and 1990s, the country
lived beyond its means, maintaining a bloated public service and
accumulating a large foreign debt. Subsequent reforms, including the
sale of state assets, the strengthening of economic management, the
encouragement of tourism, and a debt restructuring agreement, have
rekindled investment and growth.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$183.2 million (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 216


GDP (official exchange rate):


$183.2 million (2005 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


0.1% (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$9,100 (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 15.1%

industry: 9.6%

services: 75.3% (2004)



Labor force:


6,820 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 217


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 29%

industry: 15%

services: 56% (1995)



Unemployment rate:


13.1% (2005)
country comparison to the world: 138


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.1% (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Agriculture - products:


copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans, pawpaws, bananas, yams,
taro, coffee; pigs, poultry



Industries:


fruit processing, tourism, fishing, clothing, handicrafts



Industrial production growth rate:


1% (2002)
country comparison to the world: 145


Electricity - production:


31 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Electricity - consumption:


28.83 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 145


Oil - imports:


495 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Current account balance:


$26.67 million (2005)
country comparison to the world: 57


Exports:


$5.222 million (2005)
country comparison to the world: 216


Exports - commodities:


copra, papayas, fresh and canned citrus fruit, coffee; fish; pearls
and pearl shells; clothing



Imports:


$81.04 million (2005)
country comparison to the world: 211


Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber, capital goods



Debt - external:


$141 million (1996 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Exchange rates:


NZ dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.4015 (2009), 1.4151 (2008),
1.3811 (2007), 1.5408 (2006)







Communications ::Cook Islands




Telephones - main lines in use:


6,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 208


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 211


Telephone system:


general assessment: Telecom Cook Islands offers international direct
dialing, Internet, email, fax, and Telex

domestic: individual islands are connected by a combination of
satellite earth stations, microwave systems, and VHF and HF
radiotelephone; within the islands, service is provided by small
exchanges connected to subscribers by open-wire, cable, and
fiber-optic cable

international: country code - 682; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)



Broadcast media:


1 privately-owned TV station broadcasts from Rarotonga providing a
mix of local news and overseas-sourced programs; a satellite program
package is available; 6 radio stations broadcast with 1 reportedly
reaching all of the islands (2009)



Internet country code:


.ck



Internet hosts:


2,521 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 150


Internet users:


6,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 204






Transportation ::Cook Islands




Airports:


10 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 157


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 9

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 5

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 320 km
country comparison to the world: 203
paved: 33 km

unpaved: 287 km (2003)



Merchant marine:


total: 34
country comparison to the world: 82
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 27, passenger 1, refrigerated cargo 5

foreign-owned: 23 (Egypt 1, Germany 1, Latvia 1, Lithuania 2, former
Netherlands Antilles 1, Norway 6, NZ 1, Russia 1, Sweden 3, Turkey
4, UK 2) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Avatiu







Military ::Cook Islands




Military branches:


no regular military forces; National Police Department (2009)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,272

females age 16-49: 2,222 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 136

female: 115 (2010 est.)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of New Zealand in consultation with
the Cook Islands and at its request







Transnational Issues ::Cook Islands




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Coral Sea Islands  (Australia-Oceania)

Introduction ::Coral Sea Islands




Background:


Scattered over more than three-quarters of a million square
kilometers of ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory
of Australia in 1969. They are uninhabited except for a small
meteorological staff on the Willis Islets. Automated weather
stations, beacons, and a lighthouse occupy many other islands and
reefs.







Geography ::Coral Sea Islands




Location:


Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of Australia



Geographic coordinates:


18 00 S, 152 00 E



Map references:


Oceania



Area:


total: less than 3 sq km
country comparison to the world: 248
land: less than 3 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a sea
area of about 780,000 sq km with the Willis Islets the most important



Area - comparative:


NA



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


3,095 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 3 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical



Terrain:


sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: unnamed location on Cato Island 6 m



Natural resources:


NEGL



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (mostly grass or scrub cover) (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


occasional tropical cyclones



Environment - current issues:


no permanent fresh water resources



Geography - note:


important nesting area for birds and turtles







People ::Coral Sea Islands




Population:


no indigenous inhabitants

note: there is a staff of three to four at the meteorological
station on Willis Island (July 2007 est.)







Government ::Coral Sea Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: Coral Sea Islands Territory

conventional short form: Coral Sea Islands



Dependency status:


territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by the Australian
Government Attorney-General's Department



Legal system:


the laws of Australia where applicable apply



Executive branch:


administered from Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's
Department



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (territory of Australia)



Flag description:


the flag of Australia is used







Economy ::Coral Sea Islands




Economy - overview:


no economic activity







Communications ::Coral Sea Islands




Communications - note:


there are automatic weather stations on many of the isles and reefs
relaying data to the mainland







Transportation ::Coral Sea Islands




Ports and terminals:


none; offshore anchorage only







Military ::Coral Sea Islands




Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of Australia







Transnational Issues ::Coral Sea Islands




Disputes - international:


none









page last updated on November 17, 2010

======================================================================




@Costa Rica  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Costa Rica




Background:


Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th century, initial
attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved unsuccessful due to a
combination of factors, including: disease from mosquito-infested
swamps, brutal heat, resistance by natives, and pirate raids. It was
not until 1563 that a permanent settlement of Cartago was
established in the cooler, fertile central highlands. The area
remained a colony for some two and a half centuries. In 1821, Costa
Rica became one of several Central American provinces that jointly
declared their independence from Spain. Two years later it joined
the United Provinces of Central America, but this federation
disintegrated in 1838, at which time Costa Rica proclaimed its
sovereignty and independence. Since the late 19th century, only two
brief periods of violence have marred the country's democratic
development. Although it still maintains a large agricultural
sector, Costa Rica has expanded its economy to include strong
technology and tourism industries. The standard of living is
relatively high. Land ownership is widespread.







Geography ::Costa Rica




Location:


Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North
Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama



Geographic coordinates:


10 00 N, 84 00 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 51,100 sq km
country comparison to the world: 129
land: 51,060 sq km

water: 40 sq km

note: includes Isla del Coco



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than West Virginia



Land boundaries:


total: 639 km

border countries: Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km



Coastline:


1,290 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April); rainy
season (May to November); cooler in highlands



Terrain:


coastal plains separated by rugged mountains including over 100
volcanic cones, of which several are major volcanoes



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Cerro Chirripo 3,810 m



Natural resources:


hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 4.4%

permanent crops: 5.87%

other: 89.73% (2005)



Irrigated land:


1,080 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


112.4 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 2.68 cu km/yr (29%/17%/53%)

per capita: 619 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic coast; frequent
flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season and landslides; active
volcanoes

volcanism: Arenal (elev. 1,670 m, 5,479 ft), which erupted in 2010,
is the most active volcano in Costa Rica; a 1968 eruption destroyed
the town of Tabacon; Irazu (elev. 3,432 m, 11,260 ft), situated just
east of San Jose, has the potential to spew ash over the capital
city as it did between 1963 and 1965; other historically active
volcanoes include Miravalles, Poas, Rincon de la Vieja, and Turrialba



Environment - current issues:


deforestation and land use change, largely a result of the clearing
of land for cattle ranching and agriculture; soil erosion; coastal
marine pollution; fisheries protection; solid waste management; air
pollution



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation



Geography - note:


four volcanoes, two of them active, rise near the capital of San
Jose in the center of the country; one of the volcanoes, Irazu,
erupted destructively in 1963-65







People ::Costa Rica




Population:


4,516,220 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 122


Age structure:


0-14 years: 26.7% (male 581,916/female 555,216)

15-64 years: 67.1% (male 1,443,606/female 1,411,168)

65 years and over: 6.2% (male 120,969/female 141,002) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 28.4 years

male: 27.9 years

female: 28.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.347% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93


Birth rate:


16.65 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Death rate:


4.29 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Net migration rate:


1.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53


Urbanization:


urban population: 63% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female

total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 9.72 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 154
male: 10.59 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 8.81 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.54 years
country comparison to the world: 55
male: 74.93 years

female: 80.28 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.93 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.4% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


9,700 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Costa Rican(s)

adjective: Costa Rican



Ethnic groups:


white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian 1%, Chinese 1%,
other 1%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 76.3%, Evangelical 13.7%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.3%,
other Protestant 0.7%, other 4.8%, none 3.2%



Languages:


Spanish (official), English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 94.9%

male: 94.7%

female: 95.1% (2000 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 12 years

female: 12 years (2005)



Education expenditures:


5% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 66






Government ::Costa Rica




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Costa Rica

conventional short form: Costa Rica

local long form: Republica de Costa Rica

local short form: Costa Rica



Government type:


democratic republic



Capital:


name: San Jose

geographic coordinates: 9 56 N, 84 05 W

time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Alajuela, Cartago,
Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon, Puntarenas, San Jose



Independence:


15 September 1821 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 15 September (1821)



Constitution:


7 November 1949



Legal system:


based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of legislative
acts in the Supreme Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Laura CHINCHILLA Miranda (since 8 May
2010); First Vice President Alfio PIVA Mesen (since 8 May 2010);
Second Vice President Luis LIBERMAN Ginsburg (since 8 May 2010);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Laura CHINCHILLA Miranda (since 8 May
2010); First Vice President Alfio PIVA Mesen (since 8 May 2010);
Second Vice President Luis LIBERMAN Ginsburg (since 8 May 2010)

cabinet: Cabinet selected by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held on 7
February 2010 (next to be held in February 2014)

election results: Laura CHINCHILLA Miranda elected president;
percent of vote - Laura CHINCHILLA Miranda (PLN) 46.7%; Otton SOLIS
(PAC) 25.1%, Otto GUEVARA Guth (ML) 20.8%



Legislative branch:


unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa (57 seats;
members elected by direct, popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 7 February 2010 (next to be held in February
2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PLN 23, PAC 10, ML 9, PUSC 6, PASE 4, other 5



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are elected for
renewable eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly)



Political parties and leaders:


Accessibility Without Exclusion or PASE [Oscar Andres LOPEZ Arias];
Citizen Action Party or PAC [Alberto CANAS Escalante]; Costa Rican
Renovation Party or PRC [Gerardo Justo OROZCO Alvarez]; Democratic
Force Party or PFD [Marco GONZALEZ Nunez]; Frente Amplio [Jose
MERINO del Rio]; Homeland First or PP (Patria Primero) [Juan Jose
VARGAS Fallas]; Libertarian Movement Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA
Guth]; National Democratic Alliance or ADN [Jose Miguel VILLALOBOS
Umana]; National Integration Party or PIN [Walter MUNOZ Cespedes];
National Liberation Party or PLN [Francisco Antonio PACHECO
Fernandez]; National Rescue Party or PRN [Fabio Enrique DELGADO
Hernandez]; National Union Party or PUN [Arturo ACOSTA Mora];
Patriotic Alliance [Mariano FIGUERES Olsen]; Patriotic Union or UP
[Jose Miguel CORRALES Bolanos]; Popular Vanguard [Trino BARRANTES
Araya]; Social Christian Unity Party or PUSC [Luis FISHMAN
Zonzinski]; Union for Change Party or UPC [Antonio ALVAREZ Desanti]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Authentic Confederation of Democratic Workers or CATD (Communist
Party affiliate); Chamber of Coffee Growers; Confederated Union of
Workers or CUT (Communist Party affiliate); Costa Rican
Confederation of Democratic Workers or CCTD (Liberation Party
affiliate); Costa Rican Exporter's Chamber or CADEXCO; Costa Rican
Solidarity Movement; Costa Rican Union of Private Sector Enterprises
or UCCAEP [Rafael CARRILLO]; Federation of Public Service Workers or
FTSP; National Association for Economic Development or ANFE;
National Association of Educators or ANDE; National Association of
Public and Private Employees or ANEP [Albino VARGAS]; Rerum Novarum
or CTRN (PLN affiliate) [Gilbert BROWN]



International organization participation:


BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS,
OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, SICA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Meta Shanon FIGUERES Boggs

chancery: 2114 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 234-2945 or 2946

FAX: [1] (202) 265-4795

consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Anne Slaughter ANDREW

embassy: Calle 120 Avenida O, Pavas, San Jose

mailing address: APO AA 34020

telephone: [506] 2519-2000

FAX: [506] 2519-2305



Flag description:


five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double width),
white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white elliptical disk
toward the hoist side of the red band; Costa Rica retained the
earlier blue-white-blue flag of Central America until 1848 when, in
response to revolutionary activity in Europe, it was decided to
incorporate the French colors into the national flag and a central
red stripe was added; today the blue color is said to stand for the
sky, opportunity, and perseverence, white denotes peace, happiness,
and wisdom, while red represents the blood shed for freedom, as well
as the generosity and vibrancy of the people

note: somewhat resembles the flag of North Korea; similar to the
flag of Thailand but with the blue and red colors reversed



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional de Costa Rica" (National Anthem of Costa Rica)

lyrics/music: Jose Maria ZELEDON Brenes/Manuel Maria GUTIERREZ

note: adopted 1949; the anthem's music was originally written for an
1853 welcome ceremony for diplomatic missions from the United States
and United Kingdom; the lyrics were added in 1903







Economy ::Costa Rica




Economy - overview:


Prior to the global economic crisis, Costa Rica enjoyed stable
economic growth. The economy contracted 0.7% in 2009, but resumed
growth at more than 3% in 2010. While the traditional agricultural
exports of bananas, coffee, sugar, and beef are still the backbone
of commodity export trade, a variety of industrial and specialized
agricultural products have broadened export trade in recent years.
High value added goods and services, including microchips, have
further bolstered exports. Tourism continues to bring in foreign
exchange, as Costa Rica's impressive biodiversity makes it a key
destination for ecotourism. Foreign investors remain attracted by
the country's political stability and relatively high education
levels, as well as the fiscal incentives offered in the free-trade
zones; and Costa Rica has attracted one of the highest levels of
foreign direct investment per capita in Latin America. However, many
business impediments, such as high levels of bureaucracy, difficulty
of enforcing contracts, and weak investor protection, remain.
Poverty has remained around 15-20% for nearly 20 years, and the
strong social safety net that had been put into place by the
government has eroded due to increased financial constraints on
government expenditures. Unlike the rest of Central America, Costa
Rica is not highly dependent on remittances as they only represent
about 2% of GDP. Immigration from Nicaragua has increasingly become
a concern for the government. The estimated 300,000-500,000
Nicaraguans in Costa Rica legally and illegally are an important
source of - mostly unskilled - labor, but also place heavy demands
on the social welfare system. The US-Central American-Dominican
Republic Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) entered into force on 1
January 2009, after significant delays within the Costa Rican
legislature. CAFTA-DR will likely lead to increased foreign direct
investment in key sectors of the economy, including the insurance
and telecommunications sectors recently opened to private investors.
President CHINCHILLA is likely to push for fiscal reform in the
coming year, seeking to boost revenue, possibly through revised tax
legislation, to fund an increase in security services and education.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$51.3 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90
$49.57 billion (2009 est.)

$49.91 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$35.02 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96
-0.7% (2009 est.)

2.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$11,400 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98
$11,100 (2009 est.)

$11,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 6.3%

industry: 22.9%

services: 70.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


2.17 million
country comparison to the world: 117
note: this official estimate excludes Nicaraguans living in Costa
Rica (2010 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 14%

industry: 22%

services: 64% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


6.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
7.8% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


16% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.5%

highest 10%: 35.5% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


48 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 30
45.9 (1997)



Investment (gross fixed):


20.8% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Public debt:


44.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62
42% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


5.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157
7.8% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


23% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 5
25% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


19.72% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
15.83% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.504 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 94
$3.992 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$16.81 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 87
$15.84 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$15.82 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
$14.74 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$1.452 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 96
$1.887 billion (31 December 2008)

$2.035 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants, sugar, corn,
rice, beans, potatoes; beef, poultry, dairy; timber



Industries:


microprocessors, food processing, medical equipment, textiles and
clothing, construction materials, fertilizer, plastic products



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Electricity - production:


8.808 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Electricity - consumption:


8.064 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94


Electricity - exports:


77.16 million kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


203.2 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Oil - consumption:


44,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Oil - exports:


2,117 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Oil - imports:


47,860 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Current account balance:


-$1.469 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149
-$537 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$10.01 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$8.847 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants, sugar; beef;
seafood; electronic components, medical equipment



Exports - partners:


US 32.61%, Netherlands 12.82%, China 11.81%, Mexico 4.2% (2009)



Imports:


$13.69 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
$10.87 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


raw materials, consumer goods, capital equipment, petroleum,
construction materials



Imports - partners:


US 44.72%, Mexico 7.65%, Venezuela 5.56%, China 5.15%, Japan 4.36%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$4.584 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$4.066 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$9.126 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89
$7.972 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$13.92 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76
$12.17 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$547 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
$539 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Costa Rican colones (CRC) per US dollar - 526.68 (2010), 573.29
(2009), 530.41 (2008), 519.53 (2007), 511.3 (2006)







Communications ::Costa Rica




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.493 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 64


Telephones - mobile cellular:


1.95 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 134


Telephone system:


general assessment: good domestic telephone service in terms of
breadth of coverage; under the terms of CAFTA-DR, the state-run
telecommunications monopoly scheduled to be opened to competition
from domestic and international firms, has been delayed by the
nation's telecommunications regulator.

domestic: point-to-point and point-to-multi-point microwave,
fiber-optic, and coaxial cable link rural areas; Internet service is
available

international: country code - 506; landing points for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1), MAYA-1, and the Pan American
Crossing submarine cables that provide links to South and Central
America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US; connected to Central
American Microwave System; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


multiple privately-owned television stations and 1 publicly-owned
television station; cable network services are widely available;
more than 100 privately-owned radio stations and a public radio
network (2007)



Internet country code:


.cr



Internet hosts:


34,024 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 97


Internet users:


1.485 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 82






Transportation ::Costa Rica




Airports:


151 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 36


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 39

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 23

under 914 m: 12 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 112

914 to 1,523 m: 18

under 914 m: 94 (2010)



Pipelines:


refined products 796 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 278 km
country comparison to the world: 123
narrow gauge: 278 km 1.067-m gauge

note: none of the railway network is in use (2008)



Roadways:


total: 35,330 km
country comparison to the world: 95
paved: 8,621 km

unpaved: 26,709 km (2004)



Waterways:


730 km (seasonally navigable by small craft) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 75


Merchant marine:


total: 1
country comparison to the world: 160
by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Caldera, Puerto Limon







Military ::Costa Rica




Military branches:


no regular military forces; Ministry of Public Security, Government,
and Police (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,241,183

females age 16-49: 1,217,037 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,044,923

females age 16-49: 1,026,432 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 42,486

female: 40,745 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.6% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 155






Transnational Issues ::Costa Rica




Disputes - international:


the ICJ has given Costa Rica until January 2008 to reply and
Nicaragua until July 2008 to rejoin before rendering its decision on
the navigation, security, and commercial rights of Costa Rican
vessels on the Rio San Juan over which Nicaragua retains sovereignty



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 9,699-11,500 (Colombia) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


transshipment country for cocaine and heroin from South America;
illicit production of cannabis in remote areas; domestic cocaine
consumption, particularly crack cocaine, is rising; significant
consumption of amphetamines; seizures of smuggled cash in Costa Rica
and at the main border crossing to enter Costa Rica from Nicaragua
have risen in recent years (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Cote d'Ivoire  (Africa)

Introduction ::Cote d'Ivoire




Background:


Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the development of
cocoa production for export, and foreign investment made Cote
d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the West African states, but
did not protect it from political turmoil. In December 1999, a
military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history -
overthrew the government. Junta leader Robert GUEI blatantly rigged
elections held in late 2000 and declared himself the winner. Popular
protest forced him to step aside and brought Laurent GBAGBO into
power. Ivorian dissidents and disaffected members of the military
launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces
claimed the northern half of the country, and in January 2003 were
granted ministerial positions in a unity government under the
auspices of the Linas-Marcoussis Peace Accord. President GBAGBO and
rebel forces resumed implementation of the peace accord in December
2003 after a three-month stalemate, but issues that sparked the
civil war, such as land reform and grounds for citizenship, remained
unresolved. In March 2007 President GBAGBO and former New Force
rebel leader Guillaume SORO signed the Ouagadougou Political
Agreement. As a result of the agreement, SORO joined GBAGBO's
government as Prime Minister and the two agreed to reunite the
country by dismantling the zone of confidence separating North from
South, integrate rebel forces into the national armed forces, and
hold elections. Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of
rebel forces have been problematic as rebels seek to enter the armed
forces. Citizen identification and voter registration pose election
difficulties, and balloting planned for November 2009 was postponed
with no future date set. Several thousand UN troops and several
hundred French remain in Cote d'Ivoire to help the parties implement
their commitments and to support the peace process.







Geography ::Cote d'Ivoire




Location:


Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Ghana
and Liberia



Geographic coordinates:


8 00 N, 5 00 W



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 322,463 sq km
country comparison to the world: 68
land: 318,003 sq km

water: 4,460 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than New Mexico



Land boundaries:


total: 3,110 km

border countries: Burkina Faso 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km,
Liberia 716 km, Mali 532 km



Coastline:


515 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three seasons - warm
and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), hot and wet
(June to October)



Terrain:


mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in northwest



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Gulf of Guinea 0 m

highest point: Monts Nimba 1,752 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron ore, cobalt,
bauxite, copper, gold, nickel, tantalum, silica sand, clay, cocoa
beans, coffee, palm oil, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 10.23%

permanent crops: 11.16%

other: 78.61% (2005)



Irrigated land:


730 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


81 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.93 cu km/yr (24%/12%/65%)

per capita: 51 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; during the rainy season
torrential flooding is possible



Environment - current issues:


deforestation (most of the country's forests - once the largest in
West Africa - have been heavily logged); water pollution from sewage
and industrial and agricultural effluents



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


most of the inhabitants live along the sandy coastal region; apart
from the capital area, the forested interior is sparsely populated







People ::Cote d'Ivoire




Population:


21,058,798
country comparison to the world: 57
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 40.6% (male 4,215,912/female 4,146,077)

15-64 years: 56.6% (male 5,942,642/female 5,720,108)

65 years and over: 2.9% (male 296,074/female 296,255) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 19.4 years

male: 19.6 years

female: 19.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.105% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47


Birth rate:


31.48 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Death rate:


10.43 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population NA
country comparison to the world: 75


Urbanization:


urban population: 49% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 3.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.99 male(s)/female

total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 66.43 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 24
male: 73.37 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 59.29 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 56.19 years
country comparison to the world: 195
male: 55.27 years

female: 57.13 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


4.01 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3.9% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


480,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


38,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever

water contact: schistosomiasis

animal contact disease: rabies

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Ivoirian(s)

adjective: Ivoirian



Ethnic groups:


Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes 16.5%, Krous
11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (includes 130,000 Lebanese and
14,000 French) (1998)



Religions:


Muslim 38.6%, Christian 32.8%, indigenous 11.9%, none 16.7% (2008
est.)

note: the majority of foreigners (migratory workers) are Muslim
(70%) and Christian (20%)



Languages:


French (official), 60 native dialects with Dioula the most widely
spoken



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 48.7%

male: 60.8%

female: 38.6% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 6 years

male: 10 years

female: 5 years (2000)



Education expenditures:


4.6% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 89






Government ::Cote d'Ivoire




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire

conventional short form: Cote d'Ivoire

local long form: Republique de Cote d'Ivoire

local short form: Cote d'Ivoire

note: pronounced coat-div-whar

former: Ivory Coast



Government type:


republic; multiparty presidential regime established 1960

note: the government is currently operating under a power-sharing
agreement mandated by international mediators



Capital:


name: Yamoussoukro

geographic coordinates: 6 49 N, 5 17 W

time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

note: although Yamoussoukro has been the official capital since
1983, Abidjan remains the commercial and administrative center; the
US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in Abidjan



Administrative divisions:


19 regions; Agneby, Bafing, Bas-Sassandra, Denguele, Dix-Huit
Montagnes, Fromager, Haut-Sassandra, Lacs, Lagunes, Marahoue,
Moyen-Cavally, Moyen-Comoe, N'zi-Comoe, Savanes, Sud-Bandama,
Sud-Comoe, Vallee du Bandama, Worodougou, Zanzan



Independence:


7 August 1960 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 7 August (1960)



Constitution:


approved by referendum 23 July 2000



Legal system:


based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review
in the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Alassane OUATTARA (since 4 December 2010);
note - former President Laurent GBAGBO has refused to cede power

head of government: Prime Minister Guillaume SORO (since 4 April
2007); note - on 4 December 2010, Gilbert Marie N'GBO AKE was also
appointed to the position by former president GBAGBO

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note -
under the current power-sharing agreement the prime minister and the
president share the authority to appoint ministers
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held on 31 October and 28 November
2010 (next to be held in 2015); prime minister appointed by the
president

election results: Alassane OUATTARA elected president; percent of
vote - Alassane OUATTARA 54.1%, Laurent GBAGBO 45.9%; note -
President OUATTARA was declared winner by the election commission
and took the oath of office on 4 December, Prime Minister SORO
resigned from the incumbent administration and was subsequently
appointed to the same position by OUATTARA; former president GBAGBO
refused to cede and on 5 December appointed Gilbert Marie N'GBO AKE
as Prime Minister



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (225 seats;
members elected in single- and multi-district elections by direct
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: elections last held on 10 December 2000 with by-elections
on 14 January 2001 (elections originally scheduled for 2005 have
been repeatedly postponed by the government)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FPI 96, PDCI-RDA 94, RDR 5, PIT 4, other 2, independents 22, vacant 2

note: a Senate was scheduled to be created in October 2006 elections
that never took place



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four chambers: Judicial
Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for financial cases,
Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases, and Administrative
Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit to the number of
members



Political parties and leaders:


Citizen's Democratic Union or UDCY [Theodore MEL EG]; Democratic
Party of Cote d'Ivoire or PDCI [Henri Konan BEDIE]; Ivorian Popular
Front or FPI [Pascale Affi N'GUESSAN]; Ivorian Worker's Party or PIT
[Francis WODIE]; Opposition Movement of the Future or MFA [Innocent
Augustin ANAKY]; Rally of the Republicans or RDR [Alassane
OUATTARA]; Union for Democracy and Peace in Cote d'Ivoire or UDPCI
[Toikeuse MABRI]; over 144 smaller registered parties



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Federation of University and High School Students of Cote d'Ivoire
or FESCI [Serges KOFFI]; Rally of Houphouetists for Democracy and
Peace or RHDP [Alphonse DJEDJE MADY]; Young Patriots [Charles BLE
GOUDE]



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS (suspended), Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF,
OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Yao Charles KOFFI

chancery: 2424 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 797-0300

FAX: [1] (202) 244-3088



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Wanda L. NESBITT

embassy: Cocody Riviera Golf 01, Abidjan

mailing address: B. P. 1712, Abidjan 01

telephone: [225] 22 49 40 00

FAX: [225] 22 49 43 32



Flag description:


three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side), white, and green;
orange symbolizes the land (savannah) of the north and fertility,
white stands for peace and unity, green represents the forests of
the south and the hope for a bright future

note: similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and has the
colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange; also
similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side), white,
and red; design was based on the flag of France



National anthem:


name: "L'Abidjanaise" (Song of Abidjan)

lyrics/music: Mathieu EKRA, Joachim BONY, and Pierre Marie
COTY/Pierre Marie COTY and Pierre Michel PANGO

note: adopted 1960; although the nation's capital city moved from
Abidjan to Yamoussoukro in 1983, the anthem still owes its name to
the former capital







Economy ::Cote d'Ivoire




Economy - overview:


Cote d'Ivoire is heavily dependent on agriculture and related
activities, which engage roughly 68% of the population. Cote
d'Ivoire is the world's largest producer and exporter of cocoa beans
and a significant producer and exporter of coffee and palm oil.
Consequently, the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations in
international prices for these products, and, to a lesser extent, in
climatic conditions. Cocoa, oil, and coffee are the country's top
export revenue earners, but the country is also producing gold.
Since the end of the civil war in 2003, political turmoil has
continued to damage the economy, resulting in the loss of foreign
investment and slow economic growth. GDP grew by more than 2% in
2008 and around 4% per year in 2009-10. Per capita income has
declined by 15% since 1999, but registered a slight improvement in
2009-10. Power cuts caused by a turbine failure in early 2010 slowed
economic activity. Cote d'Ivoire in 2010 signed agreements to
restructure its Paris Club bilateral, other bilateral, and London
Club debt. Cote d'Ivoire's long term challenges include political
instability and degrading infrastructure.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$37.8 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100
$36.48 billion (2009 est.)

$35.01 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$22.38 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93
4.2% (2009 est.)

2.3% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194
$1,800 (2009 est.)

$1,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 28.2%

industry: 21.3%

services: 50.6% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


7.617 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 68%

industry and services: NA (2007 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA

note: unemployment may have climbed to 40-50% as a result of the
civil war



Population below poverty line:


42% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2%

highest 10%: 34% (2002)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


44.6 (2002)
country comparison to the world: 44
36.7 (1995)



Investment (gross fixed):


9.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Public debt:


63.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28
66.5% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 36
0.9% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 101
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$5.094 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 87
$4.959 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$7.653 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
$7.437 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$5.448 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108
$5.308 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$6.141 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 73
$7.071 billion (31 December 2008)

$8.353 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels, corn, rice, manioc
(tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber; timber



Industries:


foodstuffs, beverages; wood products, oil refining, truck and bus
assembly, textiles, fertilizer, building materials, electricity,
ship construction and repair



Industrial production growth rate:


4.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Electricity - production:


5.275 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Electricity - consumption:


3.231 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Electricity - exports:


772 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


58,950 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Oil - consumption:


24,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 117


Oil - exports:


115,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Oil - imports:


80,960 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Oil - proved reserves:


250 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Natural gas - production:


1.3 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Natural gas - consumption:


1.3 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Natural gas - proved reserves:


28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Current account balance:


$534 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
$1.67 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$10.25 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
$10.5 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


cocoa, coffee, timber, petroleum, cotton, bananas, pineapples, palm
oil, fish



Exports - partners:


Netherlands 13.92%, France 10.75%, US 7.79%, Germany 7.2%, Nigeria
6.99%, Ghana 5.56% (2009)



Imports:


$7.015 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
$6.318 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


fuel, capital equipment, foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


Nigeria 20.75%, France 14.19%, China 7.18%, Thailand 5.09% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.985 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
$3.267 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$11.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$11.34 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA



Exchange rates:


Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 506.04
(2010), 472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 481.83 (2007), 522.89 (2006)







Communications ::Cote d'Ivoire




Telephones - main lines in use:


282,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 117


Telephones - mobile cellular:


13.346 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 53


Telephone system:


general assessment: well developed by African standards;
telecommunications sector privatized in late 1990s and operational
fixed-lines have increased since that time with two fixed-line
providers operating over open-wire lines, microwave radio relay, and
fiber-optics; 90% digitalized

domestic: with multiple mobile-cellular service providers competing
in the market, usage has increased sharply to roughly 65 per 100
persons

international: country code - 225; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1
Indian Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state-owned television operates 2 stations; no private terrestrial
TV stations, but satellite TV subscription service is available;
state-owned radio operates 2 stations; some private radio stations;
transmissions of several international broadcasters are available
(2007)



Internet country code:


.ci



Internet hosts:


9,865 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 121


Internet users:


967,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 103






Transportation ::Cote d'Ivoire




Airports:


27 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 121


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 7

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 20

1,524 to 2,437 m: 6

914 to 1,523 m: 11

under 914 m: 3 (2010)



Pipelines:


condensate 86 km; gas 180 km; oil 92 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 660 km
country comparison to the world: 108
narrow gauge: 660 km 1.000 meter gauge

note: an additional 622 km of this railroad extends into Burkina
Faso (2008)



Roadways:


total: 80,000 km
country comparison to the world: 60
paved: 6,500 km

unpaved: 73,500 km

note: includes intercity and urban roads; another 20,000 km of dirt
roads are in poor condition and 150,000 km of dirt roads are
impassable (2006)



Waterways:


980 km (navigable rivers, canals, and numerous coastal lagoons)
(2008)
country comparison to the world: 67


Ports and terminals:


Abidjan, Espoir, San-Pedro







Military ::Cote d'Ivoire




Military branches:


Cote d'Ivoire Defense and Security Forces (FDSCI): Army, Navy, Air
Force (2006)



Military service age and obligation:


18-25 years of age for compulsory and voluntary male and female
military service; voluntary recruitment of former rebels into the
new national army is restricted to ages 22-29 (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 5,094,762

females age 16-49: 4,895,446 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,242,965

females age 16-49: 3,069,569 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 240,989

female: 237,180 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.5% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 97






Transnational Issues ::Cote d'Ivoire




Disputes - international:


despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote
d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict still leaves displaced hundreds
of thousands of Ivorians in and out of the country as well as driven
out migrants from neighboring states who worked in Ivorian cocoa
plantations; the March 2007 peace deal between Ivorian rebels and
the government brought significant numbers of rebels out of hiding
in neighboring states



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 25,615 (Liberia)

IDPs: 709,000 (2002 coup; most IDPs are in western regions) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


Cote d'Ivoire is a source, transit, and destination country for
women and children trafficked for forced labor and commercial sexual
exploitation; trafficking within the country is more prevalent than
international trafficking and the majority of victims are children;
women and girls are trafficked from northern areas to southern
cities for domestic servitude, restaurant labor, and sexual
exploitation; boys are trafficked internally for agricultural and
service labor and transnationally for forced labor in agriculture,
mining, construction, and in the fishing industry; women and girls
are trafficked to and from other West and Central African countries
for domestic servitude and forced street vending

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cote d'Ivoire is on the Tier 2
Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
to eliminate trafficking in 2007, particularly with regard to its
law enforcement efforts and protection of sex trafficking victims;
in addition, Ivoirian law does not prohibit all forms of
trafficking, and Cote d'Ivoire has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
Protocol (2008)



Illicit drugs:


illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for local consumption; utility
as a narcotic transshipment point to Europe reduced by ongoing
political instability; while rampant corruption and inadequate
supervision leave the banking system vulnerable to money laundering,
the lack of a developed financial system limits the country's
utility as a major money-laundering center (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Croatia  (Europe)

Introduction ::Croatia




Background:


The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the
Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I. In 1918, the
Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as
Yugoslavia. Following World War II, Yugoslavia became a federal
independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO.
Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991,
it took four years of sporadic, but often bitter, fighting before
occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands. Under
UN supervision, the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was
returned to Croatia in 1998. In April 2009, Croatia joined NATO; it
is a candidate for eventual EU accession.







Geography ::Croatia




Location:


Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Slovenia



Geographic coordinates:


45 10 N, 15 30 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 56,594 sq km
country comparison to the world: 126
land: 55,974 sq km

water: 620 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than West Virginia



Land boundaries:


total: 1,982 km

border countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina 932 km, Hungary 329 km,
Serbia 241 km, Montenegro 25 km, Slovenia 455 km



Coastline:


5,835 km (mainland 1,777 km, islands 4,058 km)



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


Mediterranean and continental; continental climate predominant with
hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry summers along coast



Terrain:


geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border, low
mountains and highlands near Adriatic coastline and islands



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point: Dinara 1,831 m



Natural resources:


oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium, gypsum,
natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 25.82%

permanent crops: 2.19%

other: 71.99% (2005)



Irrigated land:


110 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


105.5 cu km (1998)



Natural hazards:


destructive earthquakes



Environment - current issues:


air pollution (from metallurgical plants) and resulting acid rain is
damaging the forests; coastal pollution from industrial and domestic
waste; landmine removal and reconstruction of infrastructure
consequent to 1992-95 civil strife



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


controls most land routes from Western Europe to Aegean Sea and
Turkish Straits; most Adriatic Sea islands lie off the coast of
Croatia - some 1,200 islands, islets, ridges, and rocks







People ::Croatia




Population:


4,486,881 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Age structure:


0-14 years: 15.6% (male 358,360/female 340,098)

15-64 years: 67.5% (male 1,506,364/female 1,522,789)

65 years and over: 17% (male 295,960/female 465,838) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 41.2 years

male: 39.3 years

female: 43 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-0.061% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204


Birth rate:


9.63 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Death rate:


11.83 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


Net migration rate:


1.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46


Urbanization:


urban population: 57% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.055 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female

total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 6.26 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 175
male: 6.33 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 6.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.58 years
country comparison to the world: 80
male: 71.95 years

female: 79.4 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.43 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 195


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 10 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea

vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Croat(s), Croatian(s)

adjective: Croatian



Ethnic groups:


Croat 89.6%, Serb 4.5%, other 5.9% (including Bosniak, Hungarian,
Slovene, Czech, and Roma) (2001 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 87.8%, Orthodox 4.4%, other Christian 0.4%, Muslim
1.3%, other and unspecified 0.9%, none 5.2% (2001 census)



Languages:


Croatian (official) 96.1%, Serbian 1%, other and undesignated 2.9%
(including Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and German) (2001
census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 98.1%

male: 99.3%

female: 97.1% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


3.9% of GDP (2004)
country comparison to the world: 112






Government ::Croatia




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Croatia

conventional short form: Croatia

local long form: Republika Hrvatska

local short form: Hrvatska

former: People's Republic of Croatia, Socialist Republic of Croatia



Government type:


presidential/parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Zagreb

geographic coordinates: 45 48 N, 16 00 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


20 counties (zupanije, zupanija - singular) and 1 city* (grad -
singular); Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Brodsko-Posavska,
Dubrovacko-Neretvanska (Dubrovnik-Neretva), Istarska (Istria),
Karlovacka, Koprivnicko-Krizevacka, Krapinsko-Zagorska,
Licko-Senjska (Lika-Senj), Medimurska, Osjecko-Baranjska,
Pozesko-Slavonska (Pozega-Slavonia), Primorsko-Goranska,
Sibensko-Kninska, Sisacko-Moslavacka, Splitsko-Dalmatinska
(Split-Dalmatia), Varazdinska, Viroviticko-Podravska,
Vukovarsko-Srijemska, Zadarska, Zagreb*, Zagrebacka



Independence:


25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 8 October (1991); note - 25 June 1991 was the day
the Croatian parliament voted for independence; following a
three-month moratorium to allow the European Community to solve the
Yugoslav crisis peacefully, Parliament adopted a decision on 8
October 1991 to sever constitutional relations with Yugoslavia



Constitution:


adopted on 22 December 1990; revised 2000, 2001



Legal system:


based on Austro-Hungarian law system with Communist law influences;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age, 16 if employed; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Ivo JOSIPOVIC (since 18 February 2010)

head of government: Prime Minister Jadranka KOSOR (since 6 July
2009); Deputy Prime Ministers Bozidar PANKRETIC (since 6 July 2009),
Darko MILINOVIC (since 13 November 2009), Domagoj Ivan MILOSEVIC
(since 29 December 2010), Petar COBANKOVIC (since 29 December 2010),
Slobodan UZELAC (since 12 January 2008), Gordan JANDROKOVIC (since
29 December 2010)

cabinet: Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
approved by the parliamentary assembly
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 10 January 2010
(next to be held in December 2015); the leader of the majority party
or the leader of the majority coalition usually appointed prime
minister by the president and then approved by the assembly

election results: Ivo JOSIPOVIC elected president; percent of vote
in the second round - Ivo JOSIPOVIC 60%, Milan BANDIC 40%



Legislative branch:


unicameral Assembly or Sabor (153 seats; members elected from party
lists by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 25 November 2007 (next to be held by
November 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; number of seats by
party - HDZ 66, SDP 57, HNS 6, HSS 6, HDSSB 3, IDS 3, SDSS 3, other 9



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for both courts are
appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council of the
Republic, which is elected by the Assembly



Political parties and leaders:


Croatian Democratic Congress of Slavonia and Baranja or HDSSB
[Vladimir SISLJAGIC]; Croatian Democratic Union or HDZ [Jadranka
KOSOR]; Croatian Party of the Right or HSP [Anto DJAPIC]; Croatian
Peasant Party or HSS [Josip FRISCIC]; Croatian Pensioner Party or
HSU [Silvano HRELJA]; Croatian People's Party or HNS [Radimir
CACIC]; Croatian Social Liberal Party or HSLS [Darinko KOSOR];
Independent Democratic Serb Party or SDSS [Vojislav STANIMIROVIC];
Istrian Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan JAKOVCIC]; Social
Democratic Party of Croatia or SDP [Zoran MILANOVIC]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


other: human rights groups



International organization participation:


Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, EU
(applicant), FAO, G-11, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NAM (observer),
NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI,
UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNMOGIP, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Kolinda GRABAR-KITAROVIC

chancery: 2343 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 588-5899

FAX: [1] (202) 588-8936

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador James B. FOLEY

embassy: 2 Thomas Jefferson Street, 10010 Zagreb

mailing address: use street address

telephone: [385] (1) 661-2200

FAX: [385] (1) 661-2373



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue - the
Pan-Slav colors - superimposed by the Croatian coat of arms; the
coat of arms consists of one main shield (a checkerboard of 13 red
and 12 silver (white) fields) surmounted by five smaller shields
that form a crown over the main shield; the five small shields
represent five historic regions, they are (from left to right):
Croatia, Dubrovnik, Dalmatia, Istria, and Slavonia

note: the Pan-Slav colors were inspired by the 19th-century flag of
Russia



National anthem:


name: "Lijepa nasa domovino" (Our Beautiful Homeland)

lyrics/music: Antun MIHANOVIC/Josip RUNJANIN

note: adopted 1972; "Lijepa nasa domovino," whose lyrics were
written in 1835, served as an unofficial anthem beginning in 1891







Economy ::Croatia




Economy - overview:


Once one of the wealthiest of the Yugoslav republics, Croatia's
economy suffered badly during the 1991-95 war as output collapsed
and the country missed the early waves of investment in Central and
Eastern Europe that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall. Between
2000 and 2007, however, Croatia's economic fortunes began to improve
slowly, with moderate but steady GDP growth between 4% and 6% led by
a rebound in tourism and credit-driven consumer spending. Inflation
over the same period has remained tame and the currency, the kuna,
stable. Nevertheless, difficult problems still remain, including a
stubbornly high unemployment rate, a growing trade deficit and
uneven regional development. The state retains a large role in the
economy, as privatization efforts often meet stiff public and
political resistance. While macroeconomic stabilization has largely
been achieved, structural reforms lag because of deep resistance on
the part of the public and lack of strong support from politicians.
The EU accession process should accelerate fiscal and structural
reform. While long term growth prospects for the economy remain
strong, Croatia will face significant pressure as a result of the
global financial crisis. Croatia's high foreign debt, anemic export
sector, strained state budget, and over-reliance on tourism revenue
will result in higher risk to economic stability over the medium
term.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$78.52 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79
$79.64 billion (2009 est.)

$84.54 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$59.92 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


-1.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201
-5.8% (2009 est.)

2.4% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$17,500 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$17,700 (2009 est.)

$18,800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 6.8%

industry: 27.2%

services: 66% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.762 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 5%

industry: 31.3%

services: 63.6% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


17.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160
16.1% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


17% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.6%

highest 10%: 23.1% (2005 est.)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


29 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 116
29 (1998)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


Public debt:


55% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 44
46.4% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29
2.4% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


9% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 51
9% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


11.55% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90
10.07% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$8.72 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 75
$8.964 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$40.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$42.59 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$48.62 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
$48.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$25.64 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 55
$26.79 billion (31 December 2008)

$65.98 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, barley, alfalfa, clover,
olives, citrus, grapes, soybeans, potatoes; livestock, dairy products



Industries:


chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal,
electronics, pig iron and rolled steel products, aluminum, paper,
wood products, construction materials, textiles, shipbuilding,
petroleum and petroleum refining, food and beverages, tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


-0.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157


Electricity - production:


11.49 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Electricity - consumption:


18 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Electricity - exports:


5.668 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


12.24 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


23,960 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Oil - consumption:


106,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Oil - exports:


43,750 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Oil - imports:


122,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Oil - proved reserves:


73.35 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Natural gas - production:


2.847 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Natural gas - consumption:


3.205 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Natural gas - exports:


695.5 million cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Natural gas - imports:


1.22 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Natural gas - proved reserves:


30.58 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69


Current account balance:


-$2.312 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 159
-$3.247 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$11.51 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81
$10.72 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


transport equipment, machinery, textiles, chemicals, foodstuffs,
fuels



Exports - partners:


Italy 19.1%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 12.98%, Germany 11.06%, Slovenia
7.47%, Austria 5.44%, Serbia 5.41% (2009)



Imports:


$20.93 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 69
$21 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery, transport and electrical equipment; chemicals, fuels and
lubricants; foodstuffs



Imports - partners:


Italy 15.46%, Germany 13.57%, Russia 9.29%, China 6.83%, Slovenia
5.75%, Austria 5.04% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$13.79 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$14.89 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$59.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$62.41 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$34.63 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59
$32.13 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$6.334 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56
$5.934 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


kuna (HRK) per US dollar - 5.6356 (2010), 5.271 (2009), 4.98 (2008),
5.3735 (2007), 5.8625 (2006)







Communications ::Croatia




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.859 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 59


Telephones - mobile cellular:


6.035 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 84


Telephone system:


general assessment: the telecommunications network has improved
steadily since the mid-1990s; local lines are digital

domestic: fixed-line teledensity holding steady at about 40 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular telephone subscriptions exceed the
population

international: country code - 385; digital international service is
provided through the main switch in Zagreb; Croatia participates in
the Trans-Asia-Europe (TEL) fiber-optic project, which consists of 2
fiber-optic trunk connections with Slovenia and a fiber-optic trunk
line from Rijeka to Split and Dubrovnik; the ADRIA-1 submarine cable
provides connectivity to Albania and Greece (2009)



Broadcast media:


the national state-owned public broadcaster, Croatian
Radiotelevision (HRT), operates 2 terrestrial TV networks, a
satellite channel that rebroadcasts programs for Croatians living
abroad, and 6 regional TV centers; 2 private broadcasters operate
national terrestrial networks; about 15 privately-owned regional TV
stations; multi-channel cable and satellite TV subscription services
are available; state-owned public broadcaster operates 3 national
radio networks and a number of regional radio stations; 2
privately-owned national radio networks and a large number of
regional, county, city, and community radio stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.hr



Internet hosts:


1.287 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 38


Internet users:


2.234 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 73






Transportation ::Croatia




Airports:


69 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 73


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 23

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 6

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 9 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 46

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 7

under 914 m: 38 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 1,327 km; oil 583 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 2,722 km
country comparison to the world: 63
standard gauge: 2,722 km 1.435-m gauge (985 km electrified) (2009)



Roadways:


total: 29,248 km (includes 1,043 km of expressways) (2008)
country comparison to the world: 99


Waterways:


785 km (2009)
country comparison to the world: 74


Merchant marine:


total: 75
country comparison to the world: 56
by type: bulk carrier 24, cargo 7, chemical tanker 6,
passenger/cargo 27, petroleum tanker 10, refrigerated cargo 1

foreign-owned: 2 (Norway 2)

registered in other countries: 33 (Bahamas 1, Belize 1, Liberia 2,
Malta 7, Marshall Islands 12, Panama 2, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 8) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Omisalj, Ploce, Rijeka, Sibernik, Split, Vukovar (on Danube River)







Military ::Croatia




Military branches:


Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia (Oruzane Snage Republike
Hrvatske, OSRH), consists of five major commands directly
subordinate to a General Staff: Ground Forces (Hrvatska Kopnena
Vojska, HKoV), Naval Forces (Hrvatska Ratna Mornarica, HRM; includes
coast guard), Air Force and Air Defense Command, Joint Education and
Training Command, Logistics Command; Military Police Force supports
each of the three Croatian military forces (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-27 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of age
with consent for voluntary service; 6-month conscript service
obligation; full conversion to voluntary military service by 2010
(2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,021,904

females age 16-49: 1,023,465 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 770,574

females age 16-49: 844,594 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 27,670

female: 26,503 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2.39% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64






Transnational Issues ::Croatia




Disputes - international:


dispute remains with Bosnia and Herzegovina over several small
sections of the boundary related to maritime access that hinders
ratification of the 1999 border agreement; the Croatia-Slovenia land
and maritime boundary agreement, which would have ceded most of
Pirin Bay and maritime access to Slovenia and several villages to
Croatia, remains unratified and in dispute; Slovenia also protests
Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic;
as a European Union peripheral state, Slovenia imposed a hard border
Schengen regime with non-member Croatia in December 2007



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 2,900-7,000 (Croats and Serbs displaced in 1992-95 war) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


transit point along the Balkan route for Southwest Asian heroin to
Western Europe; has been used as a transit point for maritime
shipments of South American cocaine bound for Western Europe (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Cuba  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Cuba




Background:


The native Amerindian population of Cuba began to decline after the
European discovery of the island by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1492 and
following its development as a Spanish colony during the next
several centuries. Large numbers of African slaves were imported to
work the coffee and sugar plantations, and Havana became the
launching point for the annual treasure fleets bound for Spain from
Mexico and Peru. Spanish rule eventually provoked an independence
movement and occasional rebellions that were harshly suppressed. US
intervention during the Spanish-American War in 1898 assisted the
Cubans in overthrowing Spanish rule. The Treaty of Paris established
Cuban independence from the US in 1902 after which the island
experienced a string of governments mostly dominated by the military
and corrupt politicians. Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in
1959; his iron rule held the subsequent regime together for nearly
five decades. He stepped down as president in February 2008 in favor
of his younger brother Raul CASTRO. Cuba's Communist revolution,
with Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin America and
Africa during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. The country faced a
severe economic downturn in 1990 following the withdrawal of former
Soviet subsidies worth $4 billion to $6 billion annually. Cuba at
times portrays the US embargo, in place since 1961, as the source if
its difficulties. Illicit migration to the US - using homemade
rafts, alien smugglers, air flights, or via the southwest border -
is a continuing problem. The US Coast Guard intercepted 982
individuals attempting to cross the Straits of Florida in fiscal
year 2009.







Geography ::Cuba




Location:


Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, 150 km south of Key West, Florida



Geographic coordinates:


21 30 N, 80 00 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 110,860 sq km
country comparison to the world: 105
land: 109,820 sq km

water: 1,040 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Pennsylvania



Land boundaries:


total: 29 km

border countries: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay 29 km

note: Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and remains part of
Cuba



Coastline:


3,735 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to April);
rainy season (May to October)



Terrain:


mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and mountains in
the southeast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Pico Turquino 2,005 m



Natural resources:


cobalt, nickel, iron ore, chromium, copper, salt, timber, silica,
petroleum, arable land



Land use:


arable land: 27.63%

permanent crops: 6.54%

other: 65.83% (2005)



Irrigated land:


8,700 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


38.1 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 8.2 cu km/yr (19%/12%/69%)

per capita: 728 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


the east coast is subject to hurricanes from August to November (in
general, the country averages about one hurricane every other year);
droughts are common



Environment - current issues:


air and water pollution; biodiversity loss; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation



Geography - note:


largest country in Caribbean and westernmost island of the Greater
Antilles







People ::Cuba




Population:


11,477,459 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Age structure:


0-14 years: 18.3% (male 1,077,745/female 1,020,393)

15-64 years: 70.4% (male 4,035,691/female 4,030,103)

65 years and over: 11.2% (male 584,478/female 703,242) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 37.8 years

male: 37.1 years

female: 38.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.217% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Birth rate:


11.02 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Death rate:


7.29 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


Net migration rate:


-1.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Urbanization:


urban population: 76% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 5.72 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 180
male: 6.39 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 5 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.64 years
country comparison to the world: 53
male: 75.36 years

female: 80.05 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.61 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 138


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


6,200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Cuban(s)

adjective: Cuban



Ethnic groups:


white 65.1%, mulatto and mestizo 24.8%, black 10.1% (2002 census)



Religions:


nominally 85% Roman Catholic prior to CASTRO assuming power;
Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, and Santeria are also
represented



Languages:


Spanish (official)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99.8%

male: 99.8%

female: 99.8% (2002 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 18 years

male: 16 years

female: 19 years (2009)



Education expenditures:


13.6% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 2


People - note:


illicit emigration is a continuing problem; Cubans attempt to depart
the island and enter the US using homemade rafts, alien smugglers,
direct flights, or falsified visas; Cubans also use non-maritime
routes to enter the US including direct flights to Miami and
over-land via the southwest border







Government ::Cuba




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Cuba

conventional short form: Cuba

local long form: Republica de Cuba

local short form: Cuba



Government type:


Communist state



Capital:


name: Havana

geographic coordinates: 23 07 N, 82 21 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


14 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 special
municipality* (municipio especial); Camaguey, Ciego de Avila,
Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La Habana, Granma, Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla
de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las Tunas, Matanzas, Pinar del Rio,
Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa Clara



Independence:


20 May 1902 (from Spain 10 December 1898; administered by the US
from 1898 to 1902); not acknowledged by the Cuban Government as a
day of independence



National holiday:


Triumph of the Revolution, 1 January (1959)



Constitution:


24 February 1976; amended July 1992 and June 2002



Legal system:


based on Spanish civil law and influenced by American legal concepts
with large elements of Communist legal theory; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


16 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President of the Council of State and President of
the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Jose Ramon MACHADO
Ventura (since 24 February 2008); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government

head of government: President of the Council of State and President
of the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Jose Ramon MACHADO
Ventura (since 24 February 2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the president of the
Council of State and appointed by the National Assembly or the
31-member Council of State, elected by the assembly to act on its
behalf when it is not in session
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice presidents elected by the National
Assembly for a five-year term; election last held on 24 February
2008 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz elected president; percent of
legislative vote - 100%; Jose Ramon MACHADO Ventura elected vice
president; percent of legislative vote - 100%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly of People's Power or Asemblea Nacional
del Poder Popular (number of seats in the National Assembly is based
on population; 614 seats; members elected directly from slates
approved by special candidacy commissions to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 20 January 2008 (next to be held in January
2013)

election results: Cuba's Communist Party is the only legal party,
and officially sanctioned candidates run unopposed



Judicial branch:


People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular (president, vice
presidents, and other judges are elected by the National Assembly)



Political parties and leaders:


Cuban Communist Party or PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Human Rights Watch; National Association of Small Farmers



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES,
LAIA, NAM, OAS (excluded from formal participation since 1962),
OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, PetroCaribe, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none; note - Cuba has an Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy,
headed by Principal Officer Jorge BOLANOS Suarez; address: Cuban
Interests Section, Swiss Embassy, 2630 16th Street NW, Washington,
DC 20009; telephone: [1] (202) 797-8518; FAX: [1] (202) 797-8521



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none; note - the US has an Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy,
headed by Chief of Mission Jonathan D. FARRAR; address: USINT, Swiss
Embassy, Calzada between L and M Streets, Vedado, Havana; telephone:
[53] (7) 833-3551 through 3559 (operator assistance required); FAX:
[53] (7) 833-1653; protecting power in Cuba is Switzerland



Flag description:


five equal horizontal bands of blue (top, center, and bottom)
alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on the
hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center; the blue
bands refer to the three old divisions of the island: central,
occidental, and oriental; the white bands describe the purity of the
independence ideal; the triangle symbolizes liberty, equality, and
fraternity, while the red color stands for the blood shed in the
independence struggle; the white star, called La Estrella Solitaria
(the Lone Star) lights the way to freedom and was taken from the
flag of Texas

note: design similar to the Puerto Rican flag, with the colors of
the bands and triangle reversed



National anthem:


name: "La Bayamesa" (The Bayamo Song)

lyrics/music: Pedro FIGUEREDO

note: adopted 1940; Pedro FIGUEREDO first performed "La Bayamesa" in
1868 during the Ten Years War against the Spanish; a leading figure
in the uprising, FIGUEREDO was captured in 1870 and executed in
front of a firing squad; just prior to the fusillade he is reputed
to have shouted, "Morir por la Patria es vivir" (To die for the
country is to live), a line from the anthem







Economy ::Cuba




Economy - overview:


The government continues to balance the need for economic loosening
against a desire for firm political control. The government
announced it would eliminate 500,000 state jobs by March 2011 and
has expanded opportunities for self-employment. President CASTRO
said such changes were needed to update the economic model to ensure
the survival of socialism. It has rolled back limited reforms
undertaken in the 1990s to increase enterprise efficiency and
alleviate serious shortages of food, consumer goods, and services.
The average Cuban's standard of living remains at a lower level than
before the downturn of the 1990s, which was caused by the loss of
Soviet aid and domestic inefficiencies. Since late 2000, Venezuela
has been providing oil on preferential terms, and it currently
supplies about 100,000 barrels per day of petroleum products. Cuba
has been paying for the oil, in part, with the services of Cuban
personnel in Venezuela including some 30,000 medical professionals.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$114.1 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$112.4 billion (2009 est.)

$110.8 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$57.49 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172
1.4% (2009 est.)

4.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$9,900 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109
$9,800 (2009 est.)

$9,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 4.2%

industry: 22.7%

services: 72.9% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


5.164 million
country comparison to the world: 72
note: state sector 78%, non-state sector 22% (2010 est.)



Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 20%

industry: 19.4%

services: 60.6% (2005)



Unemployment rate:


2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12
1.7% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Investment (gross fixed):


10.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


Public debt:


34.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84
34.7% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


0.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13
-0.5% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA%



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA%



Stock of narrow money:


$11.57 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 69
$11.74 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$35.92 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
$35.61 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice, potatoes, beans; livestock



Industries:


sugar, petroleum, tobacco, construction, nickel, steel, cement,
agricultural machinery, pharmaceuticals



Industrial production growth rate:


0.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151


Electricity - production:


16.89 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Electricity - consumption:


13.93 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


48,340 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


Oil - consumption:


169,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Oil - imports:


104,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


Oil - proved reserves:


178.9 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Natural gas - production:


400 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68


Natural gas - consumption:


400 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Natural gas - proved reserves:


70.79 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Current account balance:


-$87 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
$539 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$3.311 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
$2.879 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


sugar, nickel, tobacco, fish, medical products, citrus, coffee



Exports - partners:


China 25.68%, Canada 20.31%, Spain 6.79%, Netherlands 4.53% (2009)



Imports:


$10.25 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88
$8.91 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


petroleum, food, machinery and equipment, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Venezuela 30.51%, China 15.48%, Spain 8.3%, US 6.87% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$4.847 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$4.647 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$19.75 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
$19.42 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$4.138 billion (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Exchange rates:


Cuban pesos (CUP) per US dollar - 0.9259 (2010), 0.9259 (2009),
0.9259 (2008), 0.9259 (2007), 0.9231 (2006)







Communications ::Cuba




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.168 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 71


Telephones - mobile cellular:


443,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 162


Telephone system:


general assessment: greater investment beginning in 1994 and the
establishment of a new Ministry of Information Technology and
Communications in 2000 has resulted in improvements in the system;
national fiber-optic system under development; 95% of switches
digitized by end of 2006; mobile-cellular telephone service is
expensive and must be paid in convertible pesos, which effectively
limits subscribership

domestic: fixed-line density remains low at less than 10 per 100
inhabitants; mobile-cellular service expanding but remains less than
5 per 100 persons

international: country code - 53; fiber-optic cable laid to but not
linked to US network; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
(Atlantic Ocean region) (2009)



Broadcast media:


government owns and controls all broadcast media with private
ownership of electronic media prohibited; government operates 4
national TV networks and many local TV stations; government operates
6 national radio networks, an international station, and many local
radio stations; Radio-TV Marti is beamed from the US (2007)



Internet country code:


.cu



Internet hosts:


3,025 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 145


Internet users:


1.606 million
country comparison to the world: 79
note: private citizens are prohibited from buying computers or
accessing the Internet without special authorization; foreigners may
access the Internet in large hotels but are subject to firewalls;
some Cubans buy illegal passwords on the black market or take
advantage of public outlets to access limited email and the
government-controlled "intranet" (2009)







Transportation ::Cuba




Airports:


136 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 43


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 65

over 3,047 m: 7

2,438 to 3,047 m: 9

1,524 to 2,437 m: 17

914 to 1,523 m: 5

under 914 m: 27 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 71

914 to 1,523 m: 13

under 914 m: 58 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 41 km; oil 230 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 8,598 km
country comparison to the world: 24
standard gauge: 8,322 km 1.435-m gauge (176 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 276 km 1.000-gauge

note: 4,533 km of the track is used by sugar plantations; 4,257 km
is standard gauge; 276 km is narrow gauge (2006)



Roadways:


total: 60,858 km
country comparison to the world: 75
paved: 29,820 km (includes 638 km of expressway)

unpaved: 31,038 km (2000)



Waterways:


240 km (almost all navigable inland waterways are near the mouths of
rivers) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 95


Merchant marine:


total: 5
country comparison to the world: 129
by type: cargo 2, passenger 1, refrigerated cargo 2

registered in other countries: 6 (Cyprus 1, former Netherlands
Antilles 1, Panama 4) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Antilla, Cienfuegos, Guantanamo, Havana, Matanzas, Mariel, Nuevitas
Bay, Santiago de Cuba, Tanamo







Military ::Cuba




Military branches:


Revolutionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias, FAR):
Revolutionary Army (Ejercito Revolucionario, ER, includes
Territorial Militia Troops (Milicia de Tropas de Territoriales,
MTT)); Revolutionary Navy (Marina de Guerra Revolucionaria, MGR,
includes Marine Corps); Revolutionary Air and Air Defense Forces
(DAAFAR), Youth Labor Army (Ejercito Juvenil del Trabajo, EJT) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


17-28 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year service
obligation; both sexes subject to military service (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,078,049

females age 16-49: 3,004,713 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,516,543

females age 16-49: 2,450,902 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 74,084

female: 70,445 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.8% of GDP (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Military - note:


the collapse of the Soviet Union deprived the Cuban military of its
major economic and logistic support and had a significant impact on
the state of Cuban equipment; the army remains well trained and
professional in nature; while the lack of replacement parts for its
existing equipment has increasingly affected operational
capabilities, Cuba remains able to offer considerable resistance to
any regional power (2010)







Transnational Issues ::Cuba




Disputes - international:


US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased to US and only mutual
agreement or US abandonment of the facility can terminate the lease



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Cuba is principally a source country for children
subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically commercial sexual
exploitation within the country; the scope of trafficking within
Cuba is difficult to gauge due to the closed nature of the
government and sparse non-governmental or independent reporting

tier rating: Tier 3 - Cuba does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; in a positive step, the Government of
Cuba shared information about human trafficking and its efforts to
address the issue; the government did not prohibit all forms of
trafficking during the reporting period, nor did it provide specific
evidence that it prosecuted and punished trafficking offenders,
protected victims of all forms of trafficking, or implemented victim
protection policies or programs to prevent human trafficking (2010)



Illicit drugs:


territorial waters and air space serve as transshipment zone for US-
and European-bound drugs; established the death penalty for certain
drug-related crimes in 1999 (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Curacao  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Curacao




Background:


Originally settled by Arawak Indians, Curacao was seized by the
Dutch in 1634 along with the neighboring island of Bonaire. Once the
center of the Caribbean slave trade, Curacao was hard hit by the
abolition of slavery in 1863. Its prosperity (and that of
neighboring Aruba) was restored in the early 20th century with the
construction of the Isla Refineria to service the newly discovered
Venezuelan oil fields. In 1954, Curacao and several other Dutch
Caribbean possesions were reorganized as the Netherlands Antilles,
part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In referenda in 2005 and
2009, the citizens of Curacao voted to become a self-governing
country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The change in status
became effective in October of 2010 with the dissolution of the
Netherlands Antilles.







Geography ::Curacao




Location:


Caribbean, an island in the Caribbean Sea - located 56.35 km off the
coast of Venezuela



Geographic coordinates:


12 10 N, 69 00 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 444 sq km
country comparison to the world: 198
land: 444 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


more than two times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


none



Coastline:


364 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm



Climate:


tropical marine climate, ameliorated by northeast trade winds,
results in mild temperatures; semi-arid with average rainfall of 600
mm/year



Terrain:


generally low, hilly terrain



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Mt. Christoffel, 372m



Natural resources:


calcium phosphates, aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical
fruit



Land use:


arable land: 10%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 90%



Irrigated land:


NA



Total renewable water resources:


NA



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


NA



Natural hazards:


Curacao is south of the Caribbean hurricane belt and is rarely
threatened



Environment - current issues:


NA



Geography - note:


Curacao is a part of the Windward Islands (southern) group







People ::Curacao




Population:


142,180 (est. January 2010)
country comparison to the world: 187


Age structure:


0-14 years: 21.1% (males 15,337/females 14,589)

15-64 years: 66.7% (males 42,896/females 51,998)

65 years and over: 12.2% (males 6,972/females 10,388) (2010)



Population growth rate:


NA



Birth rate:


NA



Death rate:


8 deaths/1,000 population (2009)
country comparison to the world: 106


Net migration rate:


1.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008)
country comparison to the world: 50


Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.15 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.82 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female

total population: 0.85 male(s)/female (2010)



Life expectancy at birth:


total: NA

males: 72.4 years

females: 80.1 years (2009)



Total fertility rate:


2.1 children born/woman (2009)
country comparison to the world: 120


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Religions:


Roman Catholic 80.1%, Protestant 5.5%, none 4.6%, Pentecostal 3.5%,
Seventh Day Adventist 2.2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.7%, Jewish 0.8%,
other 1.3%, not reported 0.3% (2001 census)



Languages:


Papiamento 81.2% (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect), Dutch
8% (official), Spanish 4%, English 2.9%, other 3.9% (2001 census)







Government ::Curacao




Country name:


Dutch long form: Land Curacao

Dutch short form: Curacao

Papiamentu long form: Pais Korsou

Papiamentu short form: Korsou

former: Netherlands Antilles; Curacao and Dependencies



Dependency status:


constituent country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
autonomy in internal affairs granted in 2010; Dutch Government
responsible for defense and foreign affairs



Government type:


parliamentary



Capital:


name: Willemstad

geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 68 55 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)



Independence:


none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)



National holiday:


Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA and accession to the
throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX), 30 April (1909 and 1980)



Constitution:


Staatsregeling, 10 October 2010; revised Kingdom Charter pending



Legal system:


based on Dutch civil law system with some English common law
influence



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands (since 30 April
1980); represented by Governor General Frits GOEDGEDRAG (since 10
October 2010)

head of government: Prime Minister Gerrit SCHOTTE (since 10 October
2010)

cabinet: Executive Council
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party is usually elected prime minister by the parliament



Legislative branch:


unicameral parliament or Staten (21 seats; members elected by
popular vote for four year terms)

elections: last held 27 August 2010 (next to be held in 2014)

election results: percent of vote by party - PAR 30%, MFK 21%, PS
19%, MAN 9%, FOL 7%, PNP 6%; seats by party - PAR 8, MFK 5, PS 4,
MAN 2, FOL 1, PNP 1



Judicial branch:


Common Court of Justice, Joint High Court of Justice (judges
appointed by the monarch)



Political parties and leaders:


Frente Obrero Liberashon (Workers' Liberation Front) or FOL [Anthony
GODETT]; Movimentu Antiyas Nobo (New Antilles Movement) or MAN
[Charles COOPER]; Movementu Futuro Korsou or MFK [Gerrit SCHOTTE];
Partido Antia Restruktura or PAR [Emily DE JONGH-ELHAGE]; People's
National Party or PNP [Ersilia DE LANNOOY]; Pueblo Soberano or PS
[Herman WIELS]



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Consul General Valerie BELON

consulate(s) general: J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Willemstad, Curacao

mailing address: P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao

telephone: [599] (9) 4613066

FAX: [599] (9) 4616489



Flag description:


on a blue field a horizontal yellow band somewhat below the center
divides the flag into proportions of 5:1:2; two five-pointed white
stars - the smaller above and to the left of the larger - appear in
the canton; the blue of the upper and lower sections symbolizes the
sky and sea respectively; yellow represents the sun; the stars
symbolize Curacao and its uninhabited smaller sister island of Klein
Curacao; the five star points signify the five continents from which
Curacao's people derive



National anthem:


name: Himmo di Korsou (Anthem of Curacao)

lyrics/music: Guillermo ROSARIO, Mae HENRIQUEZ, Enrique MULLER,
Betty DORAN/Frater Candidus NOWENS, Errol "El Toro" COLINA

note: adapted 1978; the lyrics, originally written in 1899, were
rewritten in 1978 to make them less colonial in nature







Economy ::Curacao




Economy - overview:


Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore finance are the mainstays
of this small economy, which is closely tied to the outside world.
Although GDP grew slightly during the past decade, the island enjoys
a high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure
compared with other countries in the region. Curacao has an
excellent natural harbor that can accommodate large oil tankers. The
Venezuelan state oil company leases the single refinery on the
island from the government; most of the oil for the refinery is
imported from Venezuela; most of the refined products are exported
to the US. Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported, with
the US, Brazil, Italy, and Mexico being the major suppliers. The
government is attempting to diversify its industry and trade and has
signed an Association Agreement with the EU to expand business
there. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the
development of agriculture. Budgetary problems complicate reform of
the health and pension systems for an aging population.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.838 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177
$2.606 billion (2007 est.)

$2.452 billion (2006 est.)

note: data are in 2008 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$5.08 billion (2008 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


3.5% (2008)
country comparison to the world: 98
2.2% (2007)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$14,970 (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1%

industry: 15%

services: 84% (2000 est.)



Labor force:


63,000 (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 1.2%

industry: 16.9%

services: 81.8%



Unemployment rate:


10.3% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.7% (2009 est,)
country comparison to the world: 46
6.8% (2008 est.)



Agriculture - products:


aloe, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical fruit



Industries:


tourism, petroleum refining, petroleum transshipment facilities,
light manufacturing



Industrial production growth rate:


NA



Electricity - production:


848.5 kWh (2005)
country comparison to the world: 214


Exports:


$876 million (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154
note: excludes oil



Exports - commodities:


petroleum products



Exports - partners:


US 13.1%, Guatemala 10.8%, Singapore 10.7%, Dominican Republic 9.6%,
Haiti 7.6%, The Bahamas 6.1%, Honduras 4.5%, Mexico 4.2% (2009 est.)



Imports:


$1.34 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165


Imports - commodities:


crude petroleum, food, manufactures



Imports - partners:


Venezuela 57.3%, US 19.2%, Brazil 8.1% (2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Netherlands Antillean guilders (ANG) per US dollar - 1.79 (2009),
1.79 (2008), 1.79 (2007), 1.79 (2006)








Transportation ::Curacao




Airports:


1
country comparison to the world: 231


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1

over 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 550 km
country comparison to the world: 191


Ports and terminals:


Bullen Baai, Fuik Bay, Willemstad







Military ::Curacao




Military branches:


the Royal Netherlands Navy maintains a permanent and active presence
in the region from its main operating base on Curacao; other local
security forces include a coast guard, para-military National Guard
(Vrijwilligers Korps Curacao), and Police Force (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


no conscription (2010)



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands










page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Cyprus  (Europe)

Introduction ::Cyprus




Background:


A former British colony, Cyprus became independent in 1960 following
years of resistance to British rule. Tensions between the Greek
Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head in
December 1963, when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia.
Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964, sporadic
intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into
enclaves throughout the island. In 1974, a Greek
Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by
military intervention from Turkey, which soon controlled more than a
third of the island. In 1983, the Turkish Cypriot-occupied area
declared itself the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" ("TRNC"),
but it is recognized only by Turkey. The election of a new Cypriot
president in 2008 served as the impetus for the UN to encourage both
the Turkish and Cypriot Governments to reopen unification
negotiations. In September 2008, the leaders of the Greek Cypriot
and Turkish Cypriot communities started negotiations under UN
auspices aimed at reuniting the divided island. The entire island
entered the EU on 1 May 2004, although the EU acquis - the body of
common rights and obligations - applies only to the areas under the
internationally recognized government, and is suspended in the areas
administered by Turkish Cypriots. However, individual Turkish
Cypriots able to document their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus
citizenship legally enjoy the same rights accorded to other citizens
of European Union states.







Geography ::Cyprus




Location:


Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey



Geographic coordinates:


35 00 N, 33 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 9,251 sq km (of which 3,355 sq km are in north Cyprus)
country comparison to the world: 170
land: 9,241 sq km

water: 10 sq km



Area - comparative:


about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut



Land boundaries:


total: 150.4 km (approximately)

border sovereign base areas: Akrotiri 47.4 km, Dhekelia 103 km
(approximately)



Coastline:


648 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters



Terrain:


central plain with mountains to north and south; scattered but
significant plains along southern coast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point: Mount Olympus 1,951 m



Natural resources:


copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay earth
pigment



Land use:


arable land: 10.81%

permanent crops: 4.32%

other: 84.87% (2005)



Irrigated land:


400 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


0.4 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.21 cu km/yr (27%/1%/71%)

per capita: 250 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


moderate earthquake activity; droughts



Environment - current issues:


water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments, seasonal
disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's largest
aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution from
sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of wildlife
habitats from urbanization



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea (after Sicily and
Sardinia)







People ::Cyprus




Population:


1,102,677 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 157


Age structure:


0-14 years: 17% (male 94,655/female 89,337)

15-64 years: 73.1% (male 411,952/female 381,074)

65 years and over: 9.9% (male 46,610/female 61,120) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 34.5 years

male: 33.2 years

female: 36.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.663% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Birth rate:


11.38 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173


Death rate:


6.42 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152


Net migration rate:


11.68 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Urbanization:


urban population: 70% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.08 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female

total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 9.57 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 155
male: 11.46 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 7.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.66 years
country comparison to the world: 52
male: 74.88 years

female: 80.57 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.45 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.1% (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


fewer than 1,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Cypriot(s)

adjective: Cypriot



Ethnic groups:


Greek 77%, Turkish 18%, other 5% (2001)



Religions:


Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, other (includes Maronite and
Armenian Apostolic) 4%



Languages:


Greek (official), Turkish (official), English



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 97.6%

male: 98.9%

female: 96.3% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


7.1% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 19






Government ::Cyprus




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Cyprus

conventional short form: Cyprus

local long form: Kypriaki Dimokratia/Kibris Cumhuriyeti

local short form: Kypros/Kibris

note: the Turkish Cypriot community, which administers the northern
part of the island, refers to itself as the "Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus" ("TRNC")



Government type:


republic

note: a separation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
island began following the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this
separation was further solidified after the Turkish intervention in
July 1974 that followed a Greek military-junta-supported coup
attempt that gave the Turkish Cypriots de facto control in the
north; Greek Cypriots control the only internationally recognized
government; on 15 November 1983 Turkish Cypriot "President" Rauf
DENKTASH declared independence and the formation of a "Turkish
Republic of Northern Cyprus" ("TRNC"), which is recognized only by
Turkey



Capital:


name: Nicosia (Lefkosia)

geographic coordinates: 35 10 N, 33 22 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Nicosia, Paphos;
note - Turkish Cypriot area's administrative divisions include
Kyrenia, all but a small part of Famagusta, and small parts of
Nicosia (Lefkosia) and Larnaca



Independence:


16 August 1960 (from the UK); note - Turkish Cypriots proclaimed
self-rule on 13 February 1975 and independence in 1983, but these
proclamations are only recognized by Turkey



National holiday:


Independence Day, 1 October (1960); note - Turkish Cypriots
celebrate 15 November (1983) as Independence Day



Constitution:


16 August 1960

note: from December 1963, the Turkish Cypriots no longer
participated in the government; negotiations to create the basis for
a new or revised constitution to govern the island and for better
relations between Greek and Turkish Cypriots have been held
intermittently since the mid-1960s; in 1975, following the 1974
Turkish intervention, Turkish Cypriots created their own
constitution and governing bodies within the "Turkish Federated
State of Cyprus," which became the "Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus (TRNC)" when the Turkish Cypriots declared independence in
1983; a new constitution for the "TRNC" passed by referendum on 5
May 1985, although the "TRNC" remains unrecognized by any country
other than Turkey



Legal system:


based on English common law with civil law modifications; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Demetris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28 February
2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; post of vice president is currently vacant; under the
1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish Cypriot

head of government: President Demetris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28
February 2008)

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed jointly by the president and
vice president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held on 17 and 24 February 2008 (next to be held in
February 2013)

election results: Demetris CHRISTOFIAS elected president; percent of
vote (first round) - Ioannis KASOULIDES 33.5%, Demetris CHRISTOFIAS
33.3%, Tassos PAPADOPOULOS 31.8%; (second round) Demetris
CHRISTOFIAS 53.4%, Ioannis KASOULIDES 46.6%

note: Dervis EROGLU became "president" of the "TRNC" on 23 April
2010 after "presidential" elections on 18 April 2010; results -
Dervis EROGLU 50.4%, Mehmet Ali TALAT 42.9%; Huseyin OZGURGUN is
"TRNC acting prime minister"



Legislative branch:


unicameral - area under government control: House of Representatives
or Vouli Antiprosopon (80 seats; 56 assigned to the Greek Cypriots,
24 to Turkish Cypriots; note - only those assigned to Greek Cypriots
are filled; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Assembly of the
Republic or Cumhuriyet Meclisi (50 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: area under government control: last held on 21 May 2006
(next to be held in May 2011); area administered by Turkish
Cypriots: last held on 19 April 2009 (next to be held in 2014)

election results: area under government control: House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - AKEL 31.1%, DISY 30.3%,
DIKO 17.9%, EDEK 8.9%, EURO.KO 5.8%, Greens 2.0%; seats by party -
AKEL 18, DISY 18, DIKO 11, EDEK 4, EURO.KO 4, Greens 1; area
administered by Turkish Cypriots: Assembly of the Republic - percent
of vote by party - UBP 44.1%, CTP 29.3%, DP 10.6%, other 16%; seats
by party - UBP 26, CTP 15, DP 5, other 4



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (judges are appointed jointly by the president and
vice president)

note: there is also a Supreme Court in the area administered by
Turkish Cypriots



Political parties and leaders:


area under government control: Democratic Party or DIKO [Marios
KAROYIAN]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos ANASTASIADES]; European
Party or EURO.KO [Demetris SYLLOURIS]; Fighting Democratic Movement
or ADIK [Dinos MIKHAILIDES]; Green Party of Cyprus [George
PERDIKIS]; Movement for Social Democrats or EDEK [Yiannakis OMIROU];
Progressive Party of the Working People or AKEL (Communist Party)
[Andros KYPRIANOU]; United Democrats or EDI [Michalis PAPAPETROU]

area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Centrist Party or HP [Rasit
PERTEV]; Communal Democracy Party or TDP [Mehmet CAKICI]; Cyprus
Socialist Party or KSP [Yusuf ALKIM]; Democratic Party or DP
[Serdaer DENKTASH]; Freedom and Reform Party or ORP [Turgay AVCI];
National Unity Party or UBP [Dervis EROGLU]; Nationalist Justice
Party or MAP [Ata TEPE]; New Cyprus Party or YKP [Murat KANATLI];
Politics for the People Party or HIS [Ahmet YONLUER]; Republican
Turkish Party or CTP [Ferdi Sabit SOYER]; United Cyprus Party or BKP
[Izzet IZCAN]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Confederation of Cypriot Workers or SEK (pro-West); Confederation of
Revolutionary Labor Unions or Dev-Is; Federation of Turkish Cypriot
Labor Unions or Turk-Sen; Pan-Cyprian Labor Federation or PEO
(Communist controlled)



International organization participation:


Australia Group, C, CE, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF
(associate member), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Pavlos ANASTASIADES

chancery: 2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 462-5772, 462-0873

FAX: [1] (202) 483-6710

consulate(s) general: New York

note: representative of the Turkish Cypriot community in the US is
Hilmi AKIL; office at 1667 K Street NW, Washington, DC; telephone
[1] (202) 887-6198



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Frank C. URBANCIC, Jr.

embassy: corner of Metochiou and Ploutarchou Streets, 2407 Engomi,
Nicosia

mailing address: P. O. Box 24536, 1385 Nicosia

telephone: [357] (22) 393939

FAX: [357] (22) 780944



Flag description:


white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the name
Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper) above two green
crossed olive branches in the center of the flag; the branches
symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between the Greek
and Turkish communities

note: the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" flag retains the
white field of the Cyprus national flag but displays narrow
horizontal red stripes positioned a small distance from the top and
bottom edges between which are centered a red crescent and a red
five-pointed star; the banner is modeled after the Turkish national
flag but with the colors reversed



National anthem:


name: "Ymnos eis tin Eleftherian" (Hymn to Liberty)

lyrics/music: Dionysios SOLOMOS/Nikolaos MANTZAROS

note: adopted 1960; Cyprus adopted the Greek national anthem as its
own; the Turkish community in Cyprus uses the anthem of Turkey







Economy ::Cyprus




Economy - overview:


The area of the Republic of Cyprus under government control has a
market economy dominated by the service sector, which accounts for
nearly four-fifths of GDP. Tourism, financial services, and real
estate are the most important sectors. Erratic growth rates over the
past decade reflect the economy's reliance on tourism, which often
fluctuates with political instability in the region and economic
conditions in Western Europe. Nevertheless, the economy in the area
under government control has grown at a rate well above the EU
average since 2000. Cyprus joined the European Exchange Rate
Mechanism (ERM2) in May 2005 and adopted the euro as its national
currency on 1 January 2008. An aggressive austerity program in the
preceding years, aimed at paving the way for the euro, helped turn a
soaring fiscal deficit (6.3% in 2003) into a surplus of 1.2% in
2008, and reduced inflation to 4.7%. This prosperity came under
pressure in 2009, as construction and tourism slowed in the face of
reduced foreign demand triggered by the ongoing global financial
crisis. Although Cyprus lagged its EU peers in showing signs of
stress from the global crisis, the economy tipped into recession in
mid 2009 and contracted 1.8% for the year. In addition, the budget
deficit is on the rise and reached 5.7% of GDP in 2010, a violation
of the EU's budget deficit criteria of no more than 3% of GDP. In
response to the country's deteriorating finances, Nicosia is
promising to implement measures to cut the cost of the state
payroll, curb tax evasion, and revamp social benefits. However, it
has been slow to act, lacking a consensus in parliament and among
the social partners for its proposed measures.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$23.18 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 118
$23.04 billion (2009 est.)

$23.45 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$22.75 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


0.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185
-1.8% (2009 est.)

3.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$21,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62
$21,300 (2009 est.)

$22,000 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.1%

industry: 18.6%

services: 79.3% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


400,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 8.5%

industry: 20.5%

services: 71% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57
5.3% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


29 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 117


Investment (gross fixed):


19.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Public debt:


61.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30
56.2% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61
0.4% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


1.75% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 115
3% (31 December 2008)

note: this is the European Central Bank's rate on the marginal
lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks in the euro
area



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


7.49% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124
7.19% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.341 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 98
$4.602 billion (31 December 2009 est)

note: this figure represents the US dollar value of Cypriot pounds
in circulation prior to Cyprus joining the Economic and Monetary
Union (EMU); see entry for the European Union for money supply in
the euro area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary
policy for the 16 members of the EMU; individual members of the EMU
do not control the quantity of money circulating within their own
borders



Stock of broad money:


$50.5 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$53.46 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$101.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$80.68 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$4.993 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 71
$7.955 billion (31 December 2008)

$29.48 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


citrus, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives, vegetables; poultry,
pork, lamb; dairy, cheese



Industries:


tourism, food and beverage processing, cement and gypsum production,
ship repair and refurbishment, textiles, light chemicals, metal
products, wood, paper, stone, and clay products



Industrial production growth rate:


0.1% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155


Electricity - production:


4.502 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 115


Electricity - consumption:


4.277 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 116


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Oil - consumption:


59,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 93


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Oil - imports:


58,930 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Current account balance:


-$2.5 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 161
-$1.915 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$2.232 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 128
$2.065 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


citrus, potatoes, pharmaceuticals, cement, clothing



Exports - partners:


Greece 23.83%, Germany 9.2%, UK 8.78% (2009)



Imports:


$7.962 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 100
$7.973 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


consumer goods, petroleum and lubricants, intermediate goods,
machinery, transport equipment



Imports - partners:


Greece 20.18%, Italy 10.67%, UK 8.95%, Germany 8.79%, Israel 6.99%,
China 5.52%, Netherlands 4.85%, France 4.01% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$1.289 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$32.61 billion (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$29.36 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62
$26.61 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$16.57 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$15.79 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.774 (2010), 0.718 (2009), 0.6827
(2008), 0.4286 (2007), 0.4586 (2006)



Economy of the area administered by Turkish Cypriots:


Economy - overview: The Turkish Cypriot economy has roughly half the
per capita GDP of the south, and economic growth tends to be
volatile, given the north's relative isolation, bloated public
sector, reliance on the Turkish lira, and small market size.
Agriculture and services, together, employ more than half of the
work force. The Turkish Cypriot economy grew around 10.6% in 2006,
fueled by growth in the construction and education sectors, as well
as increased employment of Turkish Cypriots in the area under
government control. GDP declined about 2.0% in 2007. The Turkish
Cypriots are heavily dependent on transfers from the Turkish
Government. Ankara directly finances about one-third of the "TRNC's"
budget. Aid from Turkey has exceeded $400 million annually in recent
years. The Turkish Cypriot economy experienced a sharp slowdown in
2008-09 due to the global financial crisis and, because of its
reliance on British and Turkish tourism, which has declined due to
the recession. Turkish Cypriot finances also deteriorated in 2009 as
decreased state revenues and increased government expenditures on
public sector salaries and social services led to a large budget
deficit. As tourism and the world economy picked up, the economy
grew about 0.6% in 2010.

GDP (purchasing power parity): $1.829 billion (2007 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -0.6% (2010 est.)

GDP - per capita: $11,700 (2007 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture: 8.6%, industry: 22.5%,
services: 69.1% (2006 est.)

Labor force: 95,030 (2007 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture: 14.5%, industry: 29%,
services: 56.5% (2004)

Unemployment rate: 9.4% (2005 est.)

Population below poverty line: %NA

Inflation rate: 11.4% (2006)

Budget: revenues: $2.5 billion, expenditures: $2.5 billion (2006)

Agriculture - products: citrus fruit, dairy, potatoes, grapes,
olives, poultry, lamb

Industries: foodstuffs, textiles, clothing, ship repair, clay,
gypsum, copper, furniture

Industrial production growth rate: -0.3% (2007 est.)

Electricity production: 998.9 million kWh (2005)

Electricity consumption: 797.9 million kWh (2005)

Exports: $68.1 million, f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Export - commodities: citrus, dairy, potatoes, textiles

Export - partners: Turkey 40%; direct trade between the area
administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
control remains limited

Imports: $1.2 billion, f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Import - commodities: vehicles, fuel, cigarettes, food, minerals,
chemicals, machinery

Import - partners: Turkey 60%; direct trade between the area
administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
control remains limited

Reserves of foreign exchange and gold: $NA

Debt - external: $NA

Currency (code): Turkish new lira (YTL)

Exchange rates: Turkish new lira per US dollar: 1.319 (2007) 1.4286
(2006) 1.3436 (2005) 1.4255 (2004) 1.5009 (2003)







Communications ::Cyprus




Telephones - main lines in use:


area under government control: 414,500 (2009); area administered by
Turkish Cypriots: 86,228 (2002)
country comparison to the world: 101


Telephones - mobile cellular:


area under government control: 977,500 (2009); area administered by
Turkish Cypriots: 147,522 (2002)
country comparison to the world: 146


Telephone system:


general assessment: excellent in both area under government control
and area administered by Turkish Cypriots

domestic: open-wire, fiber-optic cable, and microwave radio relay

international: country code - 357 (area administered by Turkish
Cypriots uses the country code of Turkey - 90); a number of
submarine cables, including the SEA-ME-WE-3, combine to provide
connectivity to Western Europe, the Middle East, and Asia;
tropospheric scatter; satellite earth stations - 8 (3 Intelsat - 1
Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean, 2 Eutelsat, 2 Intersputnik, and 1
Arabsat)



Broadcast media:


mixture of state and privately-run television and radio services;
the public broadcaster operates 2 TV channels and 4 radio stations;
6 private TV broadcasters, satellite and cable TV services including
telecasts from Greece and Turkey, and a number of private radio
stations are available; in areas administered by Turkish Cypriots,
there are 2 public TV stations, 4 public radio stations, and
privately-owned TV and radio broadcast stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.cy



Internet hosts:


187,881 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 66


Internet users:


433,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 120






Transportation ::Cyprus




Airports:


15 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 144


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 13

2,438 to 3,047 m: 6

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 2

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Heliports:


9 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 14,671 km
country comparison to the world: 122
12,321 km under government control (includes 257 km of expressways),

2,350 km administered by Turkish Cypriots (2008)



Merchant marine:


total: 839
country comparison to the world: 13
by type: bulk carrier 267, cargo 173, chemical tanker 77, container
193, liquefied gas 10, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 24, petroleum
tanker 69, refrigerated cargo 6, roll on/roll off 13, vehicle
carrier 4

foreign-owned: 637 (Austria 1, Belgium 2, Bermuda 1, Canada 2, Chile
1, China 6, Cuba 1, Denmark 6, Estonia 7, France 16, Germany 189,
Greece 216, Hong Kong 2, India 2, Iran 10, Ireland 3, Israel 1,
Italy 6, Japan 19, Monaco 1, Netherlands 24, Norway 12, Philippines
1, Poland 20, Portugal 2, Russia 47, Singapore 1, Slovenia 4, Spain
7, Sweden 5, Syria 1, UAE 5, UK 7, Ukraine 2, US 7)

registered in other countries: 138 (Bahamas 14, Belize 1, Burma 1,
Cambodia 8, Comoros 2, Finland 1, Gibraltar 1, Greece 4, Hong Kong
3, Liberia 7, Malta 29, Marshall Islands 38, Norway 1, Panama 8,
Russia 11, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 2, Sierra Leone 1,
Singapore 3, unknown 3) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


area under government control: Larnaca, Limassol, Vasilikos;; area
administered by Turkish Cypriots: Famagusta, Kyrenia







Military ::Cyprus




Military branches:


Republic of Cyprus: Greek Cypriot National Guard (Ethniki Forea, EF;
includes naval and air elements); northern Cyprus: Turkish Cypriot
Security Force (GKK) (2009)



Military service age and obligation:


Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG): 18-50 years of age for
compulsory military service for all Greek Cypriot males; 17 years of
age for voluntary service; women may volunteer for a 3-year term;
length of normal service is 25 months (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):

males age 16-49: 322,807

females age 16-49: 284,386 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):

males age 16-49: 271,692

females age 16-49: 236,908 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 8,317

female: 7,542 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.8% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28






Transnational Issues ::Cyprus




Disputes - international:


hostilities in 1974 divided the island into two de facto autonomous
entities, the internationally recognized Cypriot Government and a
Turkish-Cypriot community (north Cyprus); the 1,000-strong UN
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) has served in Cyprus since
1964 and maintains the buffer zone between north and south; on 1 May
2004, Cyprus entered the European Union still divided, with the EU's
body of legislation and standards (acquis communitaire) suspended in
the north; Turkey protests Cypriot Government creating hydrocarbon
blocks and maritime boundary with Lebanon in March 2007



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 210,000 (both Turkish and Greek Cypriots; many displaced for
over 30 years) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


minor transit point for heroin and hashish via air routes and
container traffic to Europe, especially from Lebanon and Turkey;
some cocaine transits as well; despite a strengthening of
anti-money-laundering legislation, remains vulnerable to money
laundering; reporting of suspicious transactions in offshore sector
remains weak (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Czech Republic  (Europe)

Introduction ::Czech Republic




Background:


Following the First World War, the closely related Czechs and
Slovaks of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire merged to form
Czechoslovakia. During the interwar years, the new country's leaders
were frequently preoccupied with meeting the demands of other ethnic
minorities within the republic, most notably the Sudeten Germans and
the Ruthenians (Ukrainians). After World War II, a truncated
Czechoslovakia fell within the Soviet sphere of influence. In 1968,
an invasion by Warsaw Pact troops ended the efforts of the country's
leaders to liberalize Communist party rule and create "socialism
with a human face." Anti-Soviet demonstrations the following year
ushered in a period of harsh repression. With the collapse of Soviet
authority in 1989, Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a
peaceful "Velvet Revolution." On 1 January 1993, the country
underwent a "velvet divorce" into its two national components, the
Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999
and the European Union in 2004.







Geography ::Czech Republic




Location:


Central Europe, between Germany, Poland, Slovakia, and Austria



Geographic coordinates:


49 45 N, 15 30 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 78,867 sq km
country comparison to the world: 115
land: 77,247 sq km

water: 1,620 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than South Carolina



Land boundaries:


total: 1,989 km

border countries: Austria 362 km, Germany 815 km, Poland 615 km,
Slovakia 197 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters



Terrain:


Bohemia in the west consists of rolling plains, hills, and plateaus
surrounded by low mountains; Moravia in the east consists of very
hilly country



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Elbe River 115 m

highest point: Snezka 1,602 m



Natural resources:


hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite, timber



Land use:


arable land: 38.82%

permanent crops: 3%

other: 58.18% (2005)



Irrigated land:


240 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


16 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 1.91 cu km/yr (41%/57%/2%)

per capita: 187 cu m/yr (2002)



Natural hazards:


flooding



Environment - current issues:


air and water pollution in areas of northwest Bohemia and in
northern Moravia around Ostrava present health risks; acid rain
damaging forests; efforts to bring industry up to EU code should
improve domestic pollution



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands,
Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


landlocked; strategically located astride some of oldest and most
significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is a traditional
military corridor between the North European Plain and the Danube in
central Europe







People ::Czech Republic




Population:


10,201,707 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Age structure:


0-14 years: 13.6% (male 712,045/female 673,657)

15-64 years: 71% (male 3,641,887/female 3,604,044)

65 years and over: 15.5% (male 623,882/female 956,389) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 40.4 years

male: 38.9 years

female: 42.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-0.106% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 210


Birth rate:


8.76 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 214


Death rate:


10.79 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 43


Net migration rate:


0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 57


Urbanization:


urban population: 73% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.059 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female

total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 3.76 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 208
male: 4.1 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 3.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.01 years
country comparison to the world: 62
male: 73.74 years

female: 80.48 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.25 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 216


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


1,500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 10 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155


Nationality:


noun: Czech(s)

adjective: Czech



Ethnic groups:


Czech 90.4%, Moravian 3.7%, Slovak 1.9%, other 4% (2001 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 26.8%, Protestant 2.1%, other 3.3%, unspecified 8.8%,
unaffiliated 59% (2001 census)



Languages:


Czech 94.9%, Slovak 2%, other 2.3%, unidentified 0.8% (2001 census)



Literacy:


definition: NA

total population: 99%

male: 99%

female: 99% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 15 years

male: 15 years

female: 16 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


4.6% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 88






Government ::Czech Republic




Country name:


conventional long form: Czech Republic

conventional short form: Czech Republic

local long form: Ceska Republika

local short form: Cesko



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Prague

geographic coordinates: 50 05 N, 14 28 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


13 regions (kraje, singular - kraj) and 1 capital city* (hlavni
mesto); Jihocesky (South Bohemia), Jihomoravsky (South Moravia),
Karlovarsky, Kralovehradecky, Liberecky, Moravskoslezsky
(Moravia-Silesia), Olomoucky, Pardubicky, Plzensky (Pilsen), Praha
(Prague)*, Stredocesky (Central Bohemia), Ustecky, Vysocina, Zlinsky



Independence:


1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech Republic and
Slovakia); note - although 1 January is the day the Czech Republic
came into being, the Czechs generally consider 28 October 1918, the
day the former Czechoslovakia declared its independence from the
Austro-Hungarian Empire, as their independence day



National holiday:


Czechoslovak Founding Day, 28 October (1918)



Constitution:


ratified on 16 December 1992, effective on 1 January 1993; amended
in 1997, 2000, 2001 (twice), 2002



Legal system:


civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; legal code
modified to bring it in line with European Union obligations and to
expunge Marxist-Leninist legal theory; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Vaclav KLAUS (since 7 March 2003)

head of government: Prime Minister Petr NECAS (since 28 June 2010);
First Deputy Prime Minister Karel SCHWARZENBERG (since 13 July
2010), Deputy Prime Minister Radek JOHN (since 13 July 2010)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); last successful election held on 15
February 2008 (after earlier elections held 8 and 9 February 2008
were inconclusive; next election to be held in 2013); prime minister
appointed by the president

election results: Vaclav KLAUS reelected president on 15 February
2008; Vaclav KLAUS 141 votes, Jan SVEJNAR 111 votes (third round;
combined votes of both chambers of parliament)



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Senate or Senat
(81 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms;
one-third elected every two years) and the Chamber of Deputies or
Poslanecka Snemovna (200 seats; members are elected by popular vote
to serve four-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held in two rounds on 15-16 and 22-23
October 2010 (next to be held by October 2012); Chamber of Deputies
- last held on 28-29 May 2010 (next to be held by 2014)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - CSSD 41, ODS 25, KDU-CSL 6, TOP 09 5, others 4; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - CSSD 22.1%, ODS 20.2%, TOP 09
16.7%, KSCM 11.3%, VV 10.9%; seats by party - CSSD 56, ODS 53, TOP
09 41, KSCM 26, VV 24



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; Supreme Administrative Court;
chairman and deputy chairmen are appointed by the president for a
10-year term



Political parties and leaders:


Association of Independent Candidates-European Democrats or SNK-ED
[Zdenka MARKOVA]; Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's
Party or KDU-CSL [Pavel BELOBRADEK]; Civic Democratic Party or ODS
[Petr NECAS]; Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM
[Vojtech FILIP]; Czech Social Democratic Party or CSSD [Bohuslav
SOBOTKA (acting)]; Green Party [Ondrej LISKA]; Public Affairs (VV)
[Radek JOHN]; Tradice Odpovednost Prosperita 09 or TOP 09 [Karel
SCHWARZENBERG]; Union of Freedom-Democratic Union or US-DEU [Jan
CERNY]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Czech-Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions or CMKOS [Jaroslav
ZAVADIL]



International organization participation:


Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CD, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC,
EBRD, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Daniel
KOSTOVAL

chancery: 3900 Spring of Freedom Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 274-9100

FAX: [1] (202) 966-8540

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Joseph
PENNINGTON

embassy: Trziste 15, 118 01 Prague 1

mailing address: use embassy street address

telephone: [420] 257 022 000

FAX: [420] 257 022 809



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a blue
isosceles triangle based on the hoist side

note: is identical to the flag of the former Czechoslovakia; uses
the Pan-Slav colors inspired by the 19th-century flag of Russia



National anthem:


name: "Kde domov muj?" (Where is My Home?)

lyrics/music: Josef Kajetan TYL/Frantisek Jan SKROUP

note: adopted 1993; the anthem is a verse from the former
Czechoslovakian anthem originally written as part of the opera
"Fidlovacka"







Economy ::Czech Republic




Economy - overview:


The Czech Republic is one of the most stable and prosperous of the
post-Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe. Maintaining an
open investment climate has been a key element of the Czech
Republic's transition from a communist, centrally planned economy to
a functioning market economy. As a member of the European Union,
with an advantageous location in the center of Europe, a relatively
low cost structure, and a well-qualified labor force, the Czech
Republic is an attractive destination for foreign investment. Prior
to its EU accession in 2004, the Czech government harmonized its
laws and regulations with those of the European Union. The small,
open, export-driven Czech economy grew by over 6% annually from
2005-2007 and by 2.5% in 2008. The conservative Czech financial
system has remained relatively healthy throughout 2009.
Nevertheless, the real economy contracted by 4.1% in 2009, mainly
due to a significant drop in external demand as the Czech Republic's
main export markets fell into recession. GDP is expected to grow by
2.4% in 2010, driven largely by a rebound in external demand,
particularly from Gremany.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$261.5 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
$256.9 billion (2009 est.)

$267.9 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$195.2 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154
-4.1% (2009 est.)

2.5% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$25,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53
$25,200 (2009 est.)

$26,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.2%

industry: 38.3%

services: 59.5% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


5.37 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 3.6%

industry: 40.2%

services: 56.2% (2007)



Unemployment rate:


9.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 102
8.1% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 4.3%

highest 10%: 22.4% (1996)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


26 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 131
25.4 (1996)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Public debt:


40% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
34% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 44
1% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


1% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 131
2.25% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


5.99% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134
6.25% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$96.82 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 32
$92.95 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$138.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$139 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$119.5 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$118.8 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$52.69 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 52
$48.85 billion (31 December 2008)

$73.42 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, poultry



Industries:


motor vehicles, metallurgy, machinery and equipment, glass, armaments



Industrial production growth rate:


3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Electricity - production:


82.72 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Electricity - consumption:


61.65 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Electricity - exports:


19.99 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


8.52 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


10,970 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Oil - consumption:


207,600 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54


Oil - exports:


29,670 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Oil - imports:


219,900 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42


Oil - proved reserves:


15 million bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Natural gas - production:


176 million cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76


Natural gas - consumption:


8.182 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


Natural gas - exports:


1.111 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 34


Natural gas - imports:


9.683 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


Natural gas - proved reserves:


3.964 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Current account balance:


-$5.956 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171
-$2.146 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$116.5 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33
$112.6 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, raw materials and fuel, chemicals



Exports - partners:


Germany 32.25%, Slovakia 9.02%, Poland 5.8%, France 5.62%, UK 4.93%,
Austria 4.71%, Italy 4.38% (2009)



Imports:


$109.2 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31
$103.1 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and transport equipment, raw materials and fuels, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Germany 30.67%, Poland 6.97%, Slovakia 6.6%, Netherlands 5.99%,
China 5.7%, Austria 5.26%, Russia 4.93%, Italy 3.98% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$38.67 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29
$41.2 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$86.79 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39
$82.42 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$126.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28
$121.9 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$15.85 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48
$14.35 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


koruny (CZK) per US dollar - 19.737 (2010), 19.063 (2009), 17.064
(2008), 20.53 (2007), 22.596 (2006)







Communications ::Czech Republic




Telephones - main lines in use:


2.092 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 53


Telephones - mobile cellular:


14.258 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 51


Telephone system:


general assessment: privatization and modernization of the Czech
telecommunication system got a late start but is advancing steadily;
virtually all exchanges now digital; existing copper subscriber
systems enhanced with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL)
equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals; trunk
systems include fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay

domestic: access to the fixed-line telephone network expanded
throughout the 1990s but the number of fixed line connections has
been dropping since then; mobile telephone usage increased sharply
beginning in the mid-1990s and the number of cellular telephone
subscriptions now greatly exceeds the population

international: country code - 420; satellite earth stations - 6 (2
Intersputnik - Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions, 1 Intelsat, 1
Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1 Globalstar) (2009)



Broadcast media:


roughly 130 television broadcasters operating some 350 television
channels with 4 publicly operated and the remainder in private
hands; 13 television stations have national coverage with 4 being
publicly operated; cable and satellite TV subscription services are
available; about 70 radio broadcasters are registered operating
roughly 85 radio stations with 15 stations publicly operated; 16
radio stations provide national coverage with the remainder local or
regional (2008)



Internet country code:


.cz



Internet hosts:


3.494 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 25


Internet users:


6.681 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 40






Transportation ::Czech Republic




Airports:


122 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 49


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 44

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 9

1,524 to 2,437 m: 12

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 18 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 78

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 27

under 914 m: 50 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 7,010 km; oil 547 km; refined products 94 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 9,620 km
country comparison to the world: 22
standard gauge: 9,521 km 1.435-m gauge (3,013 km electrified)

narrow gauge: 99 km 0.750-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 128,582 km
country comparison to the world: 37
paved: 128,582 km (includes 691 km of expressways) (2008)



Waterways:


664 km (principally on Elbe, Vltava, Oder, and other navigable
rivers, lakes, and canals) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 77


Merchant marine:


registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 162


Ports and terminals:


Decin, Prague, Usti nad Labem







Military ::Czech Republic




Military branches:


Army of the Czech Republic (ACR): Joint Forces Command (includes
Land Forces and Air Forces), Support and Training Forces Command
(2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-28 years of age for male and female voluntary military service;
no conscription (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,517,268

females age 16-49: 2,418,163 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,086,662

females age 16-49: 2,003,055 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 55,139

female: 52,440 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.46% of GDP (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104






Transnational Issues ::Czech Republic




Disputes - international:


while threats of international legal action never materialized in
2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the popular Freedom
Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that Austria
block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague closes
its controversial Soviet-style nuclear plant in Temelin, bordering
Austria



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and minor transit
point for Latin American cocaine to Western Europe; producer of
synthetic drugs for local and regional markets; susceptible to money
laundering related to drug trafficking, organized crime; significant
consumer of ecstasy (2008)









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Denmark  (Europe)

Introduction ::Denmark




Background:


Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north European
power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation that is
participating in the general political and economic integration of
Europe. It joined NATO in 1949 and the EEC (now the EU) in 1973.
However, the country has opted out of certain elements of the
European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the European Economic
and Monetary Union (EMU), European defense cooperation, and issues
concerning certain justice and home affairs.







Geography ::Denmark




Location:


Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, on a
peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two major
islands (Sjaelland and Fyn)



Geographic coordinates:


56 00 N, 10 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 43,094 sq km
country comparison to the world: 133
land: 42,434 sq km

water: 660 sq km

note: includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the rest
of metropolitan Denmark (the Jutland Peninsula, and the major
islands of Sjaelland and Fyn), but excludes the Faroe Islands and
Greenland



Area - comparative:


slightly less than twice the size of Massachusetts



Land boundaries:


total: 68 km

border countries: Germany 68 km



Coastline:


7,314 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool summers



Terrain:


low and flat to gently rolling plains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lammefjord -7 m

highest point: Mollehoj/Ejer Bavnehoj 171 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone, chalk, stone, gravel
and sand



Land use:


arable land: 52.59%

permanent crops: 0.19%

other: 47.22% (2005)



Irrigated land:


4,490 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


6.1 cu km (2003)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.67 cu km/yr (32%/26%/42%)

per capita: 123 cu m/yr (2002)



Natural hazards:


flooding is a threat in some areas of the country (e.g., parts of
Jutland, along the southern coast of the island of Lolland) that are
protected from the sea by a system of dikes



Environment - current issues:


air pollution, principally from vehicle and power plant emissions;
nitrogen and phosphorus pollution of the North Sea; drinking and
surface water becoming polluted from animal wastes and pesticides



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


controls Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat) linking Baltic and
North Seas; about one-quarter of the population lives in greater
Copenhagen







People ::Denmark




Population:


5,515,575 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Age structure:


0-14 years: 18.1% (male 511,882/female 485,782)

15-64 years: 65.8% (male 1,817,800/female 1,798,964)

65 years and over: 16.1% (male 387,142/female 498,940) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 40.7 years

male: 39.8 years

female: 41.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.267% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Birth rate:


10.4 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Death rate:


10.19 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53


Net migration rate:


2.47 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


Urbanization:


urban population: 87% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.5% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.055 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 4.29 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 198
male: 4.34 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 4.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 78.47 years
country comparison to the world: 47
male: 76.11 years

female: 80.97 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.74 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 164


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.2% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


4,800 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 124


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 100 (2003 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130


Nationality:


noun: Dane(s)

adjective: Danish



Ethnic groups:


Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish, Iranian, Somali



Religions:


Evangelical Lutheran 95%, other Christian (includes Protestant and
Roman Catholic) 3%, Muslim 2%



Languages:


Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Inuit dialect), German (small
minority)

note: English is the predominant second language



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99%

male: 99%

female: 99% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 17 years

male: 16 years

female: 18 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


7.9% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 12






Government ::Denmark




Country name:


conventional long form: Kingdom of Denmark

conventional short form: Denmark

local long form: Kongeriget Danmark

local short form: Danmark



Government type:


constitutional monarchy



Capital:


name: Copenhagen

geographic coordinates: 55 40 N, 12 35 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October

note: applies to continental Denmark only, not to its North Atlantic
components



Administrative divisions:


metropolitan Denmark - 5 regions (regioner, singular - region);
Hovedstaden, Midtjylland, Nordjylland, Sjaelland, Syddanmark

note: an extensive local government reform merged 271 municipalities
into 98 and 13 counties into five regions, effective 1 January 2007



Independence:


ca. 965 (unified and Christianized under HARALD I Gormson); 5 June
1849 (becomes a constitutional monarchy)



National holiday:


none designated; Constitution Day, 5 June (1849) is generally viewed
as the National Day



Constitution:


5 June 1953; note - constitution allowed for a unicameral
legislature and a female chief of state



Legal system:


civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January 1972); Heir
Apparent Crown Prince FREDERIK, elder son of the monarch (born on 26
May 1968)

head of government: Prime Minister Lars Loekke RASMUSSEN (since 5
April 2009)

cabinet: Council of State appointed by the monarch
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition usually appointed prime minister by the monarch



Legislative branch:


unicameral People's Assembly or Folketing (179 seats, including 2
from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands; members elected by
popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
four-year terms unless the Folketing is dissolved earlier)

elections: last held on 13 November 2007 (next to be held in 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - Liberal Party 26.2%,
Social Democrats 25.5%, Danish People's Party 13.9%, Socialist
People's Party 13.0%, Conservative People's Party 10.4%, Social
Liberal Party 5.1%, New Alliance 2.8%, Red-Green Unity List 2.2%,
other 0.9%; seats by party - Liberal Party 46, Social Democrats 45,
Danish People's Party 25, Socialist People's Party 23, Conservative
People's Party 18, Social Liberal Party 9, New Alliance 5, Red-Green
Alliance 4; note - does not include the two seats from Greenland and
the two seats from the Faroe Islands



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (judges are appointed for life by the monarch)



Political parties and leaders:


Christian Democrats [Bjarne Hartung KIRKEGAARD] (was Christian
People's Party); Conservative Party [Lars BARFOED] (sometimes known
as Conservative People's Party); Danish People's Party [Pia
KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Alliance [Anders SAMUELSEN] (formerly known as
New Alliance); Liberal Party [Lars Loekke RASMUSSEN]; Red-Green
Unity List (Alliance) [collective leadership] (bloc includes Left
Socialist Party, Communist Party of Denmark, Socialist Workers'
Party); Social Democratic Party [Helle THORNING-SCHMIDT]; Social
Liberal Party [Margrethe VESTAGER]; Socialist People's Party [Villy
SOEVNDAL]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Confederation of Danish Employers or DA [President Jorn Neergaard
LARSEN]; Principal DA member organizations: Confederation of Danish
Industries [CEO Karsten DYBVAD]; Confederation of Danish Labor
Unions [President Harald BORSTING]; Danish Bankers Association [CEO
Joergen HORWITZ]; DaneAge Association [President Bjarne HASTRUP];
Danish Society for Nature Conservation [President Ella Maria
BISSCHOP-LARSEN]

other: humanitarian relief; development assistance; human rights NGOs



International organization participation:


ADB (nonregional member), AfDB (nonregional member), Arctic Council,
Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO,
FATF, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUSCO, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNRWA,
UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Peter TAKSOE-JENSEN

chancery: 3200 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 234-4300

FAX: [1] (202) 328-1470

consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Laurie S. FULTON

embassy: Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100 Copenhagen

mailing address: PSC 73, APO AE 09716

telephone: [45] 33 41 71 00

FAX: [45] 35 43 02 23



Flag description:


red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the
vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side; the banner
is referred to as the Dannebrog (Danish flag) and is one of the
oldest national flags in the world; traditions as to the origin of
the flag design vary, but the best known is a legend that the banner
fell from the sky during an early-13th century battle; caught up by
the Danish king before it ever touched the earth, this heavenly
talisman inspired the royal army to victory; in actuality, the flag
may derive from a crusade banner or ensign

note: the shifted design element was subsequently adopted by the
other Nordic countries of Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden



National anthem:


name: "Der er et yndigt land" (There is a Lovely Land); "Kong
Christian" (King Christian)

lyrics/music: Adam Gottlob OEHLENSCHLAGER/Hans Ernst KROYER;
Johannes EWALD/unknown

note: Denmark has two national anthems with equal status; "Der er et
yndigt land," adopted 1844, is a national anthem, while "Kong
Christian," adopted 1780, serves as both a national and royal
anthem; "Kong Christian" is also known as "Kong Christian stod ved
hojen mast" (King Christian Stood by the Lofty Mast) and
"Kongesangen" (The King's Anthem); within Denmark, the royal anthem
is played only when royalty is present and is usually followed by
the national anthem; when royalty is not present, only the national
anthem is performed; outside Denmark, the royal anthem is played,
unless the national anthem is requested







Economy ::Denmark




Economy - overview:


This thoroughly modern market economy features a high-tech
agricultural sector, state-of-the-art industry with world-leading
firms in pharmaceuticals, maritime shipping and renewable energy,
and a high dependence on foreign trade. The Danish economy is also
characterized by extensive government welfare measures, an equitable
distribution of income, and comfortable living standards. Denmark is
a net exporter of food and energy and enjoys a comfortable balance
of payments surplus. After a long consumption-driven upswing,
Denmark's economy began slowing in 2007 with the end of a housing
boom. Housing prices dropped markedly in 2008-09. The global
financial crisis has exacerbated this cyclical slowdown through
increased borrowing costs and lower export demand, consumer
confidence, and investment. The global financial crises cut Danish
GDP by 0.9% in 2008 and 4.7% in 2009. Historically low levels of
unemployment rose sharply with the recession but remain below 5%,
about half the level of the EU. Denmark made a modest recovery in
2010 in part because of increased government spending. An impending
decline in the ratio of workers to retirees will be a major
long-term issue. Denmark maintained a healthy budget surplus for
many years up to 2008, but the budget balance swung into deficit
during 2009-10. Nonetheless, Denmark's fiscal position remains among
the strongest in the EU. Despite previously meeting the criteria to
join the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), so far Denmark
has decided not to join, although the Danish krone remains pegged to
the euro.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$204.1 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 52
$200.5 billion (2009 est.)

$210.4 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$304.6 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 155
-4.7% (2009 est.)

-0.9% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$37,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30
$36,400 (2009 est.)

$38,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1.1%

industry: 22.8%

services: 76.1% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


2.82 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 2.5%

industry: 20.2%

services: 77.3% (2005 est.)



Unemployment rate:


4.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38
4.3% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


12.1% (2007)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.9%

highest 10%: 28.7% (2007)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


29 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 118
24.7 (1992)



Investment (gross fixed):


17.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Public debt:


46.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56
41.5% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66
1.3% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


1% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 110
3.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$148.1 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 23
$153.1 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$209 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39
$226.8 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$636.5 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22
$671.7 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$186.9 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 30
$131.5 billion (31 December 2008)

$277.7 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


barley, wheat, potatoes, sugar beets; pork, dairy products; fish



Industries:


iron, steel, nonferrous metals, chemicals, food processing,
machinery and transportation equipment, textiles and clothing,
electronics, construction, furniture and other wood products,
shipbuilding and refurbishment, windmills, pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment



Industrial production growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Electricity - production:


36.4 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Electricity - consumption:


34.3 billion kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Electricity - exports:


11.36 billion kWh (2008)



Electricity - imports:


12.82 billion kWh (2008)



Oil - production:


262,100 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Oil - consumption:


166,500 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Oil - exports:


268,500 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45


Oil - imports:


173,100 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Oil - proved reserves:


1.06 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Natural gas - production:


8.398 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 43


Natural gas - consumption:


4.41 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 61


Natural gas - exports:


3.98 billion cu m (2009)
country comparison to the world: 29


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 91


Natural gas - proved reserves:


61.3 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


Current account balance:


$14.35 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21
$12.43 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$99.37 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35
$91.51 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and instruments, meat and meat products, dairy products,
fish, pharmaceuticals, furniture, windmills



Exports - partners:


Germany 17.53%, Sweden 12.68%, UK 8.49%, US 6.05%, Norway 6.01%,
Netherlands 4.84%, France 4.57% (2009)



Imports:


$90.83 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33
$84.46 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, raw materials and semimanufactures for
industry, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs, consumer goods



Imports - partners:


Germany 21.07%, Sweden 13.18%, Norway 7%, Netherlands 6.97%, China
6.22%, UK 5.53% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$76.65 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$559.5 billion (30 June 2010)
country comparison to the world: 18
$588.8 billion (31 December 2008)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$149.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25
$144.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$199.8 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 19
$186.6 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.774 (2010), 5.3609 (2009),
5.0236 (2008), 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468 (2006)







Communications ::Denmark




Telephones - main lines in use:


2.062 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 55


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7.406 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 79


Telephone system:


general assessment: excellent telephone and telegraph services

domestic: buried and submarine cables and microwave radio relay form
trunk network, multiple cellular mobile communications systems

international: country code - 45; a series of fiber-optic submarine
cables link Denmark with Canada, Faroe Islands, Germany, Iceland,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, and UK; satellite earth
stations - 18 (6 Intelsat, 10 Eutelsat, 1 Orion, 1 Inmarsat
(Blaavand-Atlantic-East)); note - the Nordic countries (Denmark,
Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) share the Danish earth station
and the Eik, Norway, station for worldwide Inmarsat access (2008)



Broadcast media:


strong public-sector television presence with state-owned Danmarks
Radio (DR) operating 4 channels and publicly-owned TV2 operating
roughly a half dozen channels; broadcasts of privately-owned
stations are available via satellite and cable feed; DR operates 4
nationwide FM radio stations, 15 digital audio broadcasting
stations, and about 15 web-based radio stations; approximately 250
commercial and community radio stations are operational (2007)



Internet country code:


.dk



Internet hosts:


4.145 million (2010)
country comparison to the world: 22


Internet users:


4.75 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 48






Transportation ::Denmark




Airports:


92 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 65


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 28

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 7

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 12

under 914 m: 3 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 64

914 to 1,523 m: 3

under 914 m: 61 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 2,858 km; oil 107 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 2,667 km
country comparison to the world: 64
standard gauge: 2,667 km 1.435-m gauge (640 km electrified) (2008)



Roadways:


total: 73,197 km
country comparison to the world: 64
paved: 73,197 km (includes 1,111 km of expressways) (2008)



Waterways:


400 km (2008)
country comparison to the world: 89


Merchant marine:


total: 347
country comparison to the world: 28
by type: bulk carrier 4, cargo 56, carrier 1, chemical tanker 104,
container 87, liquefied gas 4, passenger/cargo 40, petroleum tanker
38, refrigerated cargo 4, roll on/roll off 6, specialized tanker 3

foreign-owned: 32 (Germany 10, Greece 1, Iceland 3, Norway 2, Sweden
16)

registered in other countries: 592 (Antigua and Barbuda 20, Bahamas
59, Belgium 4, Brazil 3, Cyprus 6, Egypt 1, France 12, Georgia 1,
Gibraltar 6, Hong Kong 41, Isle of Man 26, Italy 4, Jamaica 1,
Liberia 4, Lithuania 8, Malaysia 1, Malta 41, Marshall Islands 7,
Mexico 2, Netherlands 36, former Netherlands Antilles 1, Norway 11,
Panama 46, Portugal 4, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 19,
Singapore 125, South Africa 1, Spain 2, Sweden 15, UK 46, Uruguay 1,
US 34, Venezuela 1, unknown 3) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Aalborg, Aarhus, Copenhagen, Ensted, Esbjerg, Fredericia, Kalundborg







Military ::Denmark




Military branches:


Defense Command: Army Operational Command, Admiral Danish Fleet,
Arctic Command, Tactical Air Command, Home Guard (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscripts serve an initial training period that varies from 4 to 12
months according to specialization; reservists are assigned to
mobilization units following completion of their conscript service;
women eligible to volunteer for military service (2004)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,235,947

females age 16-49: 1,221,386 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,013,814

females age 16-49: 1,001,411 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 37,831

female: 35,930 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.3% of GDP (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114






Transnational Issues ::Denmark




Disputes - international:


Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe
Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm; Faroese continue
to study proposals for full independence; sovereignty dispute with
Canada over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between Ellesmere
Island and Greenland









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Dhekelia  (Europe)

Introduction ::Dhekelia




Background:


By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the
independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty and
jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The larger of these is the Dhekelia Sovereign
Base Area, which is also referred to as the Eastern Sovereign Base
Area.







Geography ::Dhekelia




Location:


Eastern Mediterranean, on the southeast coast of Cyprus near
Famagusta



Geographic coordinates:


34 59 N, 33 45 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 130.8 sq km
country comparison to the world: 222
note: area surrounds three Cypriot enclaves



Area - comparative:


about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


total: 103 km (approximately)

border countries: Cyprus 103 km (approximately)



Coastline:


27.5 km



Climate:


temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters



Environment - current issues:


netting and trapping of small migrant songbirds in the spring and
autumn



Geography - note:


British extraterritorial rights also extended to several small
off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base Area
land 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the Ministry
of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land







People ::Dhekelia




Population:


approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri
and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 service and UK based
contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents
country comparison to the world: 220


Languages:


English, Greek







Government ::Dhekelia




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Dhekelia



Dependency status:


a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus



Capital:


name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri
and Dhekelia); located in Akrotiri

geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Constitution:


Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in Council 1960,
effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal document



Legal system:


the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court system to
deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to the Cypriot
population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws of the
Republic of Cyprus



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

head of government: Administrator Major General Jamie GORDON (since
October 2008); note - reports to the British Ministry of Defense

elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary; the administrator
appointed by the monarch



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK)



Flag description:


the flag of the UK is used



National anthem:


note: as a United Kingdom area of special sovereignty,"God Save the
Queen" is official (see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Dhekelia




Economy - overview:


Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military
and their families located in Dhekelia. All food and manufactured
goods must be imported.



Industries:


none



Exchange rates:


euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7338 (2009), 0.6827
(2008)

note: on 1 January 2008, Dhekelia and Akrotiri adopted the euro
along with the rest of Cyprus







Communications ::Dhekelia




Broadcast media:


British Forces Broadcast Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel
satellite TV service as well as BFBS radio broadcasts to the
Dhekelia Sovereign Base (2009)








Military ::Dhekelia




Military - note:


includes Dhekelia Garrison and Ayios Nikolaos Station connected by a
roadway










page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Djibouti  (Africa)

Introduction ::Djibouti




Background:


The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became Djibouti in
1977. Hassan Gouled APTIDON installed an authoritarian one-party
state and proceeded to serve as president until 1999. Unrest among
the Afars minority during the 1990s led to a civil war that ended in
2001 following the conclusion of a peace accord between Afar rebels
and the Issa-dominated government. In 1999, Djibouti's first
multi-party presidential elections resulted in the election of
Ismail Omar GUELLEH; he was re-elected to a second term in 2005.
Djibouti occupies a strategic geographic location at the mouth of
the Red Sea and serves as an important transshipment location for
goods entering and leaving the east African highlands. The present
leadership favors close ties to France, which maintains a
significant military presence in the country but also has strong
ties with the US. Djibouti hosts the only US military base in
sub-Saharan Africa and is a front-line state in the global war on
terrorism.







Geography ::Djibouti




Location:


Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea, between
Eritrea and Somalia



Geographic coordinates:


11 30 N, 43 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 23,200 sq km
country comparison to the world: 150
land: 23,180 sq km

water: 20 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Massachusetts



Land boundaries:


total: 516 km

border countries: Eritrea 109 km, Ethiopia 349 km, Somalia 58 km



Coastline:


314 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


desert; torrid, dry



Terrain:


coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lac Assal -155 m

highest point: Moussa Ali 2,028 m



Natural resources:


potential geothermal power, gold, clay, granite, limestone, marble,
salt, diatomite, gypsum, pumice, petroleum



Land use:


arable land: 0.04%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 99.96% (2005)



Irrigated land:


10 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


0.3 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.02 cu km/yr (84%/0%/16%)

per capita: 25 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


earthquakes; droughts; occasional cyclonic disturbances from the
Indian Ocean bring heavy rains and flash floods

volcanism: Djibouti experiences limited volcanic activity; Ardoukoba
(elev. 298 m, 978 ft) last erupted in 1978; Manda-Inakir, located
along the Ethiopian border, is also historically active



Environment - current issues:


inadequate supplies of potable water; limited arable land;
desertification; endangered species



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic location near world's busiest shipping lanes and close to
Arabian oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into Ethiopia; mostly
wasteland; Lac Assal (Lake Assal) is the lowest point in Africa







People ::Djibouti




Population:


740,528 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 162


Age structure:


0-14 years: 36.3% (male 131,878/female 131,449)

15-64 years: 60.4% (male 194,503/female 243,495)

65 years and over: 3.2% (male 10,462/female 12,835) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 21.4 years

male: 19.8 years

female: 22.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.181% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Birth rate:


25.58 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Death rate:


8.37 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Net migration rate:


4.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 20


Urbanization:


urban population: 87% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.8 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female

total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 56.65 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 39
male: 64.55 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 48.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 60.73 years
country comparison to the world: 186
male: 58.31 years

female: 63.22 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.79 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


16,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


1,100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Djiboutian(s)

adjective: Djiboutian



Ethnic groups:


Somali 60%, Afar 35%, other 5% (includes French, Arab, Ethiopian,
and Italian)



Religions:


Muslim 94%, Christian 6%



Languages:


French (official), Arabic (official), Somali, Afar



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 67.9%

male: 78%

female: 58.4% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 5 years

male: 5 years

female: 4 years (2007)



Education expenditures:


8.7% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 8






Government ::Djibouti




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Djibouti

conventional short form: Djibouti

local long form: Republique de Djibouti/Jumhuriyat Jibuti

local short form: Djibouti/Jibuti

former: French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Djibouti

geographic coordinates: 11 35 N, 43 09 E

time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


6 districts (cercles, singular - cercle); Ali Sabieh, Arta, Dikhil,
Djibouti, Obock, Tadjourah



Independence:


27 June 1977 (from France)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 27 June (1977)



Constitution:


approved by referendum 4 September 1992; note - constitution allows
for multiparties



Legal system:


based on French civil law system, traditional practices, and Islamic
law; accepts ICJ compulsory jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Ismail Omar GUELLEH (since 8 May 1999)

head of government: Prime Minister Mohamed Dileita DILEITA (since 4
March 2001)

cabinet: Council of Ministers responsible to the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
president is eligible to hold office until age 75; election last
held on 8 April 2005 (next to be held by April 2011); prime minister
appointed by the president

election results: Ismail Omar GUELLEH reelected president; percent
of vote - Ismail Omar GUELLEH 100%



Legislative branch:


unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (65 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms); note -
constitutional amendments in 2010 provided for the establishment of
a senate

elections: last held on 8 February 2008 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats - UMP
(coalition of parties associated with President Ismail Omar GUELLAH)
65



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Cour Supreme



Political parties and leaders:


Democratic National Party or PND [ADEN Robleh Awaleh]; Democratic
Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi HAMARITEH]; Djibouti Development
Party or PDD [Mohamed Daoud CHEHEM]; Front pour la Restauration de
l'Unite Democratique or FRUD [Ali Mohamed DAOUD]; People's Progress
Assembly or RPP [Ismail Omar GUELLEH] (governing party); Peoples
Social Democratic Party or PPSD [Moumin Bahdon FARAH]; Republican
Alliance for Democracy or ARD [Ahmed YOUSSOUF]; Union for a
Presidential Majority or UMP [Mohamed Dileita DILEITA] (a coalition
of parties including RPP, FRUD, PND, and PPSD); Union for Democracy
and Justice or UDJ



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Union for Presidential Majority UMP (coalition includes RPP, FRUD,
PPSD and PND); Union for Democratic Changeover or UAD (opposition
coalition includes ARD, MRDD, and UDJ)



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IPU, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Roble OLHAYE Oudine

chancery: Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone: [1] (202) 331-0270

FAX: [1] (202) 331-0302



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador James C. SWAN

embassy: Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti

mailing address: B. P. 185, Djibouti

telephone: [253] 35 39 95

FAX: [253] 35 39 40



Flag description:


two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light green with
a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bearing a red
five-pointed star in the center; blue stands for sea and sky and the
Issa Somali people; green symbolizes earth and the Afar people;
white represents peace; the red star recalls the struggle for
independence and stands for unity



National anthem:


name: "Jabuuti" (Djibouti)

lyrics/music: Aden ELMI/Abdi ROBLEH

note: adopted 1977







Economy ::Djibouti




Economy - overview:


The economy is based on service activities connected with the
country's strategic location and status as a free trade zone in the
Horn of Africa. Two-thirds of Djibouti's inhabitants live in the
capital city; the remainder are mostly nomadic herders. Scanty
rainfall limits crop production to fruits and vegetables, and most
food must be imported. Djibouti provides services as both a transit
port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling
center. Imports and exports from landlocked neighbor Ethiopia
represent 70% of port activity at Djibouti's container terminal.
Djibouti has few natural resources and little industry. The nation
is, therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help
support its balance of payments and to finance development projects.
An unemployment rate of nearly 60% in urban areas continues to be a
major problem. While inflation is not a concern, due to the fixed
tie of the Djiboutian franc to the US dollar, the artificially high
value of the Djiboutian franc adversely affects Djibouti's balance
of payments. Per capita consumption dropped an estimated 35% between
1999 and 2006 because of recession, civil war, and a high population
growth rate (including immigrants and refugees). Djibouti has
experienced relatively minimal impact from the global economic
downturn, but its reliance on diesel-generated electricity and
imported food leave average consumers vulnerable to global price
shocks.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$2.099 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183
$2.003 billion (2009 est.)

$1.908 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$1.139 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63
5% (2009 est.)

5.8% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$2,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170
$2,800 (2009 est.)

$2,700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 3.2%

industry: 14.9%

services: 81.9% (2006)



Labor force:


351,700 (2007)
country comparison to the world: 159


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: NA%

industry: NA%

services: NA%



Unemployment rate:


59% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 194
note: data are for urban areas, 83% in rural areas



Population below poverty line:


42% (2007 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.4%

highest 10%: 30.9% (2002)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


6% (2009 est.) 5%
country comparison to the world: 161


Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
11.56% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$577.8 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 156
$462.7 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$940.8 million (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 165
$800.8 million (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$339 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 168
$269.9 million (31 December 2008)



Agriculture - products:


fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels, animal hides



Industries:


construction, agricultural processing



Electricity - production:


280 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Electricity - consumption:


260.4 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Oil - consumption:


12,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144


Oil - exports:


19 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 137


Oil - imports:


8,476 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Current account balance:


-$352 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 105
-$212 million (2007 est.)



Exports:


$100 million (2009); $340 million
country comparison to the world: 192


Exports - commodities:


reexports, hides and skins, coffee (in transit)



Exports - partners:


Somalia 76.68%, France 4.89%, UAE 4.22% (2009)



Imports:


$644 million (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183
$1.555 billion (2006)



Imports - commodities:


foods, beverages, transport equipment, chemicals, petroleum products



Imports - partners:


Saudi Arabia 16.26%, India 16.03%, China 14.26%, US 9.57%, Malaysia
6.63%, Japan 4.74% (2009)



Debt - external:


$428 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 165


Exchange rates:


Djiboutian francs (DJF) per US dollar - 177.71 (2007), 174.75
(2006), 177.72 (2005), 177.72 (2004), 177.72 (2003)







Communications ::Djibouti




Telephones - main lines in use:


16,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 197


Telephones - mobile cellular:


128,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 179


Telephone system:


general assessment: telephone facilities in the city of Djibouti are
adequate, as are the microwave radio relay connections to outlying
areas of the country

domestic: Djibouti Telecom is the sole provider of
telecommunications services and utilizes mostly a microwave radio
relay network; fiber-optic cable is installed in the capital; rural
areas connected via wireless local loop radio systems; mobile
cellular coverage is primarily limited to the area in and around
Djibouti city

international: country code - 253; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2 (1 Intelsat -
Indian Ocean and 1 Arabsat); Medarabtel regional microwave radio
relay telephone network (2009)



Broadcast media:


maintains restrictions on the licensing and operation of broadcast
media; state-owned Radiodiffusion-Television de Djibouti (RTD)
operates the sole terrestrial TV station as well as the only 2
domestic radio networks; no private TV or radio stations;
transmissions of several international broadcasters are available
(2007)



Internet country code:


.dj



Internet hosts:


195 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 196


Internet users:


25,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 184






Transportation ::Djibouti




Airports:


13 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 151


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 3

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 10

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 7

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Railways:


total: 100 km (Djibouti segment of the 781 km Addis Ababa-Djibouti
railway)
country comparison to the world: 126
narrow gauge: 100 km 1.000-m gauge

note: railway is under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but is
largely inoperable (2008)



Roadways:


total: 3,065 km
country comparison to the world: 164
paved: 1,226 km

unpaved: 1,839 km (2000)



Ports and terminals:


Djibouti



Transportation - note:


the International Maritime Bureau reports offshore waters in the
Gulf of Aden are high risk for piracy; numerous vessels, including
commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and
hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers, and
cargo are held for ransom







Military ::Djibouti




Military branches:


Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; 16-25 years of age
for voluntary military training; no conscription (2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 165,000

females age 16-49: 213,894 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 110,441

females age 16-49: 147,939 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 8,260

female: 8,503 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.8% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 30






Transnational Issues ::Djibouti




Disputes - international:


Djibouti maintains economic ties and border accords with
"Somaliland" leadership while maintaining some political ties to
various factions in Somalia; Kuwait is chief investor in the 2008
restoration and upgrade of the Ethiopian-Djibouti rail link; in
2008, Eritrean troops move across the border on Ras Doumera
peninsula and occupy Doumera Island with undefined sovereignty in
the Red Sea



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 8,642 (Somalia) (2007)









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Dominica  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Dominica




Background:


Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be colonized by
Europeans due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the native Caribs.
France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763, which made the
island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after independence,
Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and tyrannical
administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia CHARLES, the
first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who remained in office
for 15 years. Some 3,000 Carib Indians still living on Dominica are
the only pre-Columbian population remaining in the eastern Caribbean.







Geography ::Dominica




Location:


Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, about half way between Puerto Rico and Trinidad and Tobago



Geographic coordinates:


15 25 N, 61 20 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 751 sq km
country comparison to the world: 188
land: 751 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


148 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall



Terrain:


rugged mountains of volcanic origin



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point: Morne Diablotins 1,447 m



Natural resources:


timber, hydropower, arable land



Land use:


arable land: 6.67%

permanent crops: 21.33%

other: 72% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Total renewable water resources:


NA



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.02 cu km/yr

per capita: 213 cu m/yr (1996)



Natural hazards:


flash floods are a constant threat; destructive hurricanes can be
expected during the late summer months



Environment - current issues:


NA



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


known as "The Nature Island of the Caribbean" due to its
spectacular, lush, and varied flora and fauna, which are protected
by an extensive natural park system; the most mountainous of the
Lesser Antilles, its volcanic peaks are cones of lava craters and
include Boiling Lake, the second-largest, thermally active lake in
the world







People ::Dominica




Population:


72,813 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Age structure:


0-14 years: 24% (male 8,910/female 8,518)

15-64 years: 65.8% (male 24,532/female 23,301)

65 years and over: 10.2% (male 3,187/female 4,212) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 30.3 years

male: 29.8 years

female: 30.8 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.213% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Birth rate:


15.68 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 131


Death rate:


8.12 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Net migration rate:


-5.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 202


Urbanization:


urban population: 74% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 0.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female

total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 13.2 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 132
male: 17.7 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 8.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.77 years
country comparison to the world: 76
male: 72.82 years

female: 78.87 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.08 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 123


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Dominican(s)

adjective: Dominican



Ethnic groups:


black 86.8%, mixed 8.9%, Carib Amerindian 2.9%, white 0.8%, other
0.7% (2001 census)



Religions:


Roman Catholic 61.4%, Seventh Day Adventist 6%, Pentecostal 5.6%,
Baptist 4.1%, Methodist 3.7%, Church of God 1.2%, Jehovah's
Witnesses 1.2%, other Christian 7.7%, Rastafarian 1.3%, other or
unspecified 1.6%, none 6.1% (2001 census)



Languages:


English (official), French patois



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population: 94%

male: 94%

female: 94% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 13 years

male: 12 years

female: 13 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


4.8% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 79






Government ::Dominica




Country name:


conventional long form: Commonwealth of Dominica

conventional short form: Dominica



Government type:


parliamentary democracy



Capital:


name: Roseau

geographic coordinates: 15 18 N, 61 24 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John,
Saint Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick, Saint Paul,
Saint Peter



Independence:


3 November 1978 (from the UK)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 3 November (1978)



Constitution:


3 November 1978



Legal system:


based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Nicholas J. O. LIVERPOOL (since October
2003)

head of government: Prime Minister Roosevelt SKERRIT (since 8
January 2004)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by the House of Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held on 1 October 2003 (next to be
held in 2013); prime minister appointed by the president

election results: Nicholas LIVERPOOL consented to a second term in
2008 at the request of the prime minister and leader of the
opposition



Legislative branch:


unicameral House of Assembly (30 seats; 9 members appointed, 21
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 18 December 2009 (next to be held in 2015);
note - tradition dictates that the election will be held within five
years of the last election, but technically it is five years from
the first seating of parliament (12 May 2005) plus a 90-day grace
period

election results: percent of vote by party - DLP 61.2%, UWP 34.9%;
seats by party - DLP 18, UWP 3



Judicial branch:


Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the Court of Appeal
and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of the six judges
must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of Summary
Jurisdiction)



Political parties and leaders:


Dominica Freedom Party or DFP [Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica Labor
Party or DLP [Roosevelt SKERRIT]; Dominica United Workers Party or
UWP [Earl WILLIAMS]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Dominica Liberation Movement or DLM (a small leftist party)



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW, PetroCaribe, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Hubert J. CHARLES

chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone: [1] (202) 364-6781

FAX: [1] (202) 364-6791

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


the US does not have an embassy in Dominica; the US Ambassador to
Barbados is accredited to Dominica



Flag description:


green, with a centered cross of three equal bands - the vertical
part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the horizontal
part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in the center
of the cross is a red disk bearing a Sisserou Parrot, unique to
Dominica, encircled by 10 green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow;
the 10 stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes);
green symbolizes the island's lush vegetation; the triple-colored
cross represents the Christian Trinity; the yellow color denotes
sunshine, the main agricultural products (citrus and bananas), and
the native Carib Indians; black is for the rich soil and the African
heritage of most citizens; white signifies rivers, waterfalls, and
the purity of aspirations; the red disc stands for social justice



National anthem:


name: "Isle of Beauty, Isle of Splendor"

lyrics/music: Wilfred Oscar Morgan POND/Lemuel McPherson CHRISTIAN

note: adopted 1967







Economy ::Dominica




Economy - overview:


The Dominican economy has been dependent on agriculture - primarily
bananas - in years past, but increasingly has been driven by tourism
as the government seeks to promote Dominica as an "ecotourism"
destination. In order to diversify the island's production base, the
government also is attempting to develop an offshore financial
sector and has signed an agreement with the EU to develop geothermal
energy resources. In 2003, the government began a comprehensive
restructuring of the economy - including elimination of price
controls, privatization of the state banana company, and tax
increases - to address an economic and financial crisis and to meet
IMF requirements. This restructuring paved the way for an economic
recovery - real growth for 2006 reached a two-decade high - and
helped to reduce the debt burden, which remains at about 85% of GDP.
Hurricane Dean struck the island in August 2007 causing damages
equivalent to 20% of GDP. In 2009, growth slowed as a result of the
global recession; it picked up only slightly in 2010.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$765.4 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 209
$754.8 million (2009 est.)

$757.1 million (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$375 million (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173
-0.3% (2009 est.)

3.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$10,500 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
$10,400 (2009 est.)

$10,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 17.7%

industry: 32.8%

services: 49.5% (2004 est.)



Labor force:


25,000 (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 206


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 40%

industry: 32%

services: 28% (2000 est.)



Unemployment rate:


23% (2000 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Population below poverty line:


30% (2002 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Public debt:


78% of GDP (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18
85% of GDP (2006 est.) (2006 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


0.1% (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 9
2.7% (2007 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


6.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 61
6.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


10.02% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103
9.06% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$74.84 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 183
$67.94 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of broad money:


$398.5 million (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 176
$362 million (31 December 2008)



Stock of domestic credit:


$213.6 million (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174
$193.1 million (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, citrus, mangos, root crops, coconuts, cocoa

note: forest and fishery potential not exploited



Industries:


soap, coconut oil, tourism, copra, furniture, cement blocks, shoes



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


85 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Electricity - consumption:


79.05 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 201


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Oil - imports:


838 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 190


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 89


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Current account balance:


-$72 million (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72


Exports:


$94 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 194


Exports - commodities:


bananas, soap, bay oil, vegetables, grapefruit, oranges



Exports - partners:


Japan 28.62%, UK 19.81%, Antigua and Barbuda 7.7%, Guyana 6.52%,
Jamaica 5.4%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.2% (2009)



Imports:


$296 million (2006)
country comparison to the world: 196


Imports - commodities:


manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, food, chemicals



Imports - partners:


Japan 31.29%, US 19.73%, Trinidad and Tobago 11.8%, China 11.58%
(2009)



Debt - external:


$213 million (2004)
country comparison to the world: 174


Exchange rates:


East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)







Communications ::Dominica




Telephones - main lines in use:


17,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 196


Telephones - mobile cellular:


106,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 184


Telephone system:


general assessment: fully automatic network

domestic: Fixed-line teledensity is roughly 25 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular teledensity approached 150 per 100 persons in 2009

international: country code - 1-767; landing points for the East
Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) and the Global Caribbean Network
(GCN) submarine cables providing connectivity to other islands in
the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin Islands to
Trinidad; microwave radio relay and SHF radiotelephone links to
Martinique and Guadeloupe; VHF and UHF radiotelephone links to Saint
Lucia



Broadcast media:


no terrestrial television service available; subscription cable TV
provider offers some locally produced programming plus channels from
the US, Latin America, and the Caribbean; state-operated radio
broadcasts on 6 stations; privately-owned radio broadcasts on about
15 stations (2007)



Internet country code:


.dm



Internet hosts:


718 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 174


Internet users:


28,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 182






Transportation ::Dominica




Airports:


2 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 208


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 780 km
country comparison to the world: 187
paved: 393 km

unpaved: 387 km (2000)



Merchant marine:


total: 40
country comparison to the world: 78
by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 20, chemical tanker 2, petroleum
tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1

foreign-owned: 37 (Australia 1, Estonia 6, Germany 2, Greece 9,
India 2, Latvia 1, Norway 1, Russia 6, Saudi Arabia 3, Singapore 1,
Syria 2, Turkey 1, Ukraine 2)

registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Portsmouth, Roseau







Military ::Dominica




Military branches:


no regular military forces; Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force
(includes Coast Guard) (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 18,975 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 15,963

females age 16-49: 15,426 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 729

female: 688 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


NA







Transnational Issues ::Dominica




Disputes - international:


Dominica is the only Caribbean state to challenge Venezuela's
sovereignty claim over Aves Island and joins the other island
nations in challenging whether the feature sustains human
habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the
Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its Exclusive
Economic Zone (EEZ) and continental shelf claims over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US and Europe; minor
cannabis producer (2008)









page last updated on January 11, 2011

======================================================================




@Dominican Republic  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::Dominican Republic




Background:


Explored and claimed by Christopher COLUMBUS on his first voyage in
1492, the island of Hispaniola became a springboard for Spanish
conquest of the Caribbean and the American mainland. In 1697, Spain
recognized French dominion over the western third of the island,
which in 1804 became Haiti. The remainder of the island, by then
known as Santo Domingo, sought to gain its own independence in 1821
but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians for 22 years; it finally
attained independence as the Dominican Republic in 1844. In 1861,
the Dominicans voluntarily returned to the Spanish Empire, but two
years later they launched a war that restored independence in 1865.
A legacy of unsettled, mostly non-representative rule followed,
capped by the dictatorship of Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930-61.
Juan BOSCH was elected president in 1962 but was deposed in a
military coup in 1963. In 1965, the United States led an
intervention in the midst of a civil war sparked by an uprising to
restore BOSCH. In 1966, Joaquin BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an
election to become president. BALAGUER maintained a tight grip on
power for most of the next 30 years when international reaction to
flawed elections forced him to curtail his term in 1996. Since then,
regular competitive elections have been held in which opposition
candidates have won the presidency. Former President (1996-2000)
Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a new term in 2004 following
a constitutional amendment allowing presidents to serve more than
one term, and was since reelected to a second consecutive term.







Geography ::Dominican Republic




Location:


Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, between
the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Haiti



Geographic coordinates:


19 00 N, 70 40 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 48,670 sq km
country comparison to the world: 131
land: 48,320 sq km

water: 350 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly more than twice the size of New Hampshire



Land boundaries:


total: 360 km

border countries: Haiti 360 km



Coastline:


1,288 km



Maritime claims:


measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines

territorial sea: 6 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin



Climate:


tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation; seasonal
variation in rainfall



Terrain:


rugged highlands and mountains with fertile valleys interspersed



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lago Enriquillo -46 m

highest point: Pico Duarte 3,175 m



Natural resources:


nickel, bauxite, gold, silver



Land use:


arable land: 22.49%

permanent crops: 10.26%

other: 67.25% (2005)



Irrigated land:


2,750 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


21 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 3.39 cu km/yr (32%/2%/66%)

per capita: 381 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to severe
storms from June to October; occasional flooding; periodic droughts



Environment - current issues:


water shortages; soil eroding into the sea damages coral reefs;
deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti







People ::Dominican Republic




Population:


9,823,821 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Age structure:


0-14 years: 31.4% (male 1,543,141/female 1,488,016)

15-64 years: 62.7% (male 3,087,351/female 2,960,319)

65 years and over: 5.9% (male 264,476/female 306,751) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 25.8 years

male: 25.6 years

female: 26 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.357% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


Birth rate:


19.9 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


Death rate:


4.3 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Net migration rate:


-2.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 173


Urbanization:


urban population: 69% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.6% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female

total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 23.1 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 90
male: 25.11 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 21 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 77.15 years
country comparison to the world: 60
male: 75.01 years

female: 79.38 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.47 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 51


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


62,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


4,100 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Dominican(s)

adjective: Dominican



Ethnic groups:


mixed 73%, white 16%, black 11%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%



Languages:


Spanish (official)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 87%

male: 86.8%

female: 87.2% (2002 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 11 years

female: 13 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


2.2% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 165






Government ::Dominican Republic




Country name:


conventional long form: Dominican Republic

conventional short form: The Dominican

local long form: Republica Dominicana

local short form: La Dominicana



Government type:


democratic republic



Capital:


name: Santo Domingo

geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 69 54 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


31 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 district*
(distrito); Azua, Bahoruco, Barahona, Dajabon, Distrito Nacional*,
Duarte, El Seibo, Elias Pina, Espaillat, Hato Mayor, Independencia,
La Altagracia, La Romana, La Vega, Maria Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor
Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte Plata, Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata,
Salcedo, Samana, San Cristobal, San Jose de Ocoa, San Juan, San
Pedro de Macoris, Sanchez Ramirez, Santiago, Santiago Rodriguez,
Santo Domingo, Valverde



Independence:


27 February 1844 (from Haiti)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 27 February (1844)



Constitution:


28 November 1966; amended 25 July 2002 and January 2010



Legal system:


based on French civil codes; Criminal Procedures Code modified in
2004 to include important elements of an accusatory system; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age, universal and compulsory; married persons
regardless of age; note - members of the armed forces and national
police cannot vote



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna (since 16 August
2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro (since 16 August
2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna (since 16
August 2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro (since 16
August 2004)

cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held on 16 May
2008 (next to be held in May 2012)

election results: Leonel FERNANDEZ reelected president; percent of
vote - Leonel FERNANDEZ 53.6%, Miguel VARGAS 41%, Amable ARISTY less
than 5%



Legislative branch:


bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate or Senado (32 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Camara de
Diputados (178 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections: Senate - last held on 16 May 2010 (next to be held in May
2014); House of Representatives - last held on 16 May 2010 (next to
be held in May 2014)

election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PLD 31, PRD 1; House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - PLD 105, PRD 75, PRSC 3



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the National
Judicial Council comprised of the president, the leaders of both
chambers of congress, the president of the Supreme Court, and an
additional non-governing party congressional representative)



Political parties and leaders:


Dominican Liberation Party or PLD [Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna];
Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD [Ramon ALBURQUERQUE]; National
Progressive Front [Vincent CASTILLO, Pelegrin CASTILLO]; Social
Christian Reformist Party or PRSC [Enrique ANTUN]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Citizen Participation Group (Participacion Ciudadania); Collective
of Popular Organizations or COP; Foundation for Institution-Building
and Justice (FINJUS)



International organization participation:


ACP, AOSIS, BCIE, Caricom (observer), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, PetroCaribe, RG,
SICA (associated member), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Roberto B. SALADIN Selin

chancery: 1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 332-6280

FAX: [1] (202) 265-8057

consulate(s) general: Anchorage, Boston, Chicago, Mayaguez (Puerto
Rico), Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Juan (Puerto Rico), Sun
Valley (California)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Raul H. YZAGUIRRE

embassy: corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas Penson and Calle Leopoldo
Navarro, Santo Domingo

mailing address: Unit 5500, APO AA 34041-5500

telephone: [1] (809) 221-2171

FAX: [1] (809) 686-7437



Flag description:


a centered white cross that extends to the edges divides the flag
into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist side) and red,
and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a small coat of
arms featuring a shield supported by a laurel branch (left) and a
palm branch (right) is at the center of the cross; above the shield
a blue ribbon displays the motto, DIOS, PATRIA, LIBERTAD (God,
Fatherland, Liberty), and below the shield, REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
appears on a red ribbon; in the shield a bible is opened to a verse
that reads "Y la verdad nos hara libre" (And the truth shall set you
free); blue stands for liberty, white for salvation, and red for the
blood of heroes



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional" (National Anthem)

lyrics/music: Emilio PRUD"HOMME/Jose REYES

note: adopted 1934; also known as "Quisqueyanos valientes" (Valient
Sons of Quisqueye); the anthem never refers to the people as
Dominican but rather calls them "Quisqueyanos," a reference to the
indigenous name of the island







Economy ::Dominican Republic




Economy - overview:


The Dominican Republic has long been viewed primarily as an exporter
of sugar, coffee, and tobacco, but in recent years the service
sector has overtaken agriculture as the economy's largest employer,
due to growth in tourism and free trade zones. The economy is highly
dependent upon the US, the destination for nearly 60% of exports.
Remittances from the US amount to about a tenth of GDP, equivalent
to almost half of exports and three-quarters of tourism receipts.
The country suffers from marked income inequality; the poorest half
of the population receives less than one-fifth of GDP, while the
richest 10% enjoys nearly 40% of GDP. High unemployment and
underemployment remains an important long-term challenge. The
Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR)
came into force in March 2007, boosting investment and exports and
reducing losses to the Asian garment industry. The growth of the
Dominican Republic's economy slowed in 2008-09 because of the global
recession, but still remained one of the fastest growing in the
region.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$84.94 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76
$81.52 billion (2009 est.)

$78.76 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$50.87 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
3.5% (2009 est.)

5.3% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$8,600 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119
$8,400 (2009 est.)

$8,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 11.5%

industry: 21%

services: 67.5% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


4.498 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 14.6%

industry: 22.3%

services: 63.1% (2005 est.)



Unemployment rate:


14.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 144
14.9% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


42.2% (2004)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.5%

highest 10%: 38.7% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


49.9 (2005)
country comparison to the world: 25
47.4 (1998)



Investment (gross fixed):


15.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


Public debt:


41.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
40.8% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


6.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166
1.4% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


18.14% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18
19.95% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.734 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 93
$4.079 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$15.71 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88
$14 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$21.63 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
$18.91 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco, rice, beans, potatoes,
corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products, beef, eggs



Industries:


tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold mining, textiles,
cement, tobacco



Industrial production growth rate:


1.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 139


Electricity - production:


14.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Electricity - consumption:


12.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180


Oil - consumption:


118,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Oil - imports:


116,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Natural gas - consumption:


470 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


Natural gas - imports:


470 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Current account balance:


-$3.862 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 167
-$2.328 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$6.161 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 102
$5.462 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


ferronickel, sugar, gold, silver, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, meats,
consumer goods



Exports - partners:


US 54.08%, Haiti 9.78% (2009)



Imports:


$14.53 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79
$12.28 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals



Imports - partners:


US 42.79%, Venezuela 7.04%, Mexico 6.17%, Colombia 5.59% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$2.705 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88
$2.905 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$13.09 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82
$11.04 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$19.45 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68
$17.95 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$59 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Dominican pesos (DOP) per US dollar - 36.92 (2010), 36.027 (2009),
34.775 (2008), 33.113 (2007), 33.406 (2006)







Communications ::Dominican Republic




Telephones - main lines in use:


965,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 80


Telephones - mobile cellular:


8.63 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 71


Telephone system:


general assessment: relatively efficient system based on island-wide
microwave radio relay network

domestic: fixed-line teledensity is about 10 per 100 persons;
multiple providers of mobile-cellular service with a subscribership
of roughly 75 per 100 persons

international: country code - 1-809; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1), Antillas 1, and the
Fibralink submarine cables that provide links to South and Central
America, parts of the Caribbean, and US; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


combination of state-owned and privately-owned broadcast media; 1
state-owned television network and a number of private TV networks;
networks operate repeaters to extend signals throughout country;
combination of state-owned and privately-owned radio stations; more
than 300 radio stations operating (2007)



Internet country code:


.do



Internet hosts:


283,298 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 60


Internet users:


2.701 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 68






Transportation ::Dominican Republic




Airports:


35 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 110


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 16

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 4

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 4

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 19

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 17 (2010)



Railways:


total: 1,784 km
country comparison to the world: 77
standard gauge: 375 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge: 1,409 km 1.076-m, 0.889-m, and 0.762-m gauges

note: 1,226 km operated by sugar companies in 1.076 m, 0.889 m, and
0.762-m gauges (2008)



Roadways:


total: 19,705 km
country comparison to the world: 110
paved: 9,872 km

unpaved: 9,833 km (2002)



Merchant marine:


total: 1
country comparison to the world: 161
by type: cargo 1

registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)



Ports and terminals:


Andres (Boca Chica), Puerto Haina, Puerto Plata, Santo Domingo







Military ::Dominican Republic




Military branches:


Army, Navy (Marina de Guerra), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Dominicana,
FAD) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


16-21 years of age for compulsory military service; recruits must be
Dominican Republic citizens; women may volunteer (2010)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,514,160

females age 16-49: 2,395,804 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,090,785

females age 16-49: 1,957,233 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 98,394

female: 94,576 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.7% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 154






Transnational Issues ::Dominican Republic




Disputes - international:


Haitian migrants cross the porous border into the Dominican Republic
to find work; illegal migrants from the Dominican Republic cross the
Mona Passage each year to Puerto Rico to find better work



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: the Dominican Republic is a source, transit, and
destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; a large
number of Dominican women are trafficked into prostitution and
sexual exploitation in Western Europe, Australia, Central and South
America, and Caribbean destinations; a significant number of women,
boys, and girls are trafficked within the country for sexual
exploitation and domestic servitude

tier rating: Tier 3 - for its failure to show evidence of increasing
efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of not
adequately investigating and prosecuting public officials who may be
complicit with trafficking activity, and inadequate government
efforts to protect trafficking victims; the government has taken
measures to reduce demand for commercial sex acts with children
through criminal prosecutions (2008)



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the US and
Europe; has become a transshipment point for ecstasy from the
Netherlands and Belgium destined for US and Canada; substantial
money laundering activity in particular by Colombian narcotics
traffickers; significant amphetamine consumption (2008)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Ecuador  (South America)

Introduction ::Ecuador




Background:


What is now Ecuador formed part of the northern Inca Empire until
the Spanish conquest in 1533. Quito became a seat of Spanish
colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New
Granada in 1717. The territories of the Viceroyalty - New Granada
(Colombia), Venezuela, and Quito - gained their independence between
1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia. When
Quito withdrew in 1830, the traditional name was changed in favor of
the "Republic of the Equator." Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost
territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border
war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999. Although
Ecuador marked 30 years of civilian governance in 2004, the period
has been marred by political instability. Protests in Quito
contributed to the mid-term ouster of three of Ecuador's last four
democratically elected Presidents. In September 2008, voters
approved a new constitution; Ecuador's twentieth since gaining
independence. General elections, under the new constitutional
framework, were held in April 2009, and voters re-elected President
Rafael CORREA.







Geography ::Ecuador




Location:


Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the Equator,
between Colombia and Peru



Geographic coordinates:


2 00 S, 77 30 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 283,561 sq km
country comparison to the world: 73
land: 276,841 sq km

water: 6,720 sq km

note: includes Galapagos Islands



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Nevada



Land boundaries:


total: 2,010 km

border countries: Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km



Coastline:


2,237 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 200 nm

continental shelf: 100 nm from 2,500-m isobath



Climate:


tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher elevations;
tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands



Terrain:


coastal plain (costa), inter-Andean central highlands (sierra), and
flat to rolling eastern jungle (oriente)



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Chimborazo 6,267 m

note: due to the fact that the earth is not a perfect sphere and has
an equatorial bulge, the highest point on the planet furthest from
its center is Mount Chimborazo not Mount Everest, which is merely
the highest peak above sea-level



Natural resources:


petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 5.71%

permanent crops: 4.81%

other: 89.48% (2005)



Irrigated land:


8,650 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


432 cu km (2000)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 16.98 cu km/yr (12%/5%/82%)

per capita: 1,283 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


frequent earthquakes; landslides; volcanic activity; floods;
periodic droughts

volcanism: Ecuador experiences volcanic activity in the Andes
Mountains; Sangay (elev. 5,230 m, 17,159 ft), which erupted in 2010,
is mainland Ecuador's most active volcano; other historically active
volcanoes in the Andes include Antisana, Cayambe, Chacana, Cotopaxi,
Guagua Pichincha, Reventador, Sumaco, and Tungurahua; Fernandina
(elev. 1,476 m, 4,842 ft), a shield volcano that last erupted in
2009, is the most active of the many Galapagos volcanoes; other
historically active Galapagos volcanoes include Wolf, Sierra Negra,
Cerro Azul, Pinta, Marchena, and Santiago



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; water pollution;
pollution from oil production wastes in ecologically sensitive areas
of the Amazon Basin and Galapagos Islands



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in world







People ::Ecuador




Population:


14,790,608 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65


Age structure:


0-14 years: 31.1% (male 2,312,610/female 2,220,378)

15-64 years: 62.7% (male 4,506,908/female 4,636,703)

65 years and over: 6.2% (male 432,144/female 464,358) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 25.3 years

male: 24.7 years

female: 25.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.466% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Birth rate:


20.32 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Death rate:


5 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Net migration rate:


-0.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 147


Urbanization:


urban population: 66% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.1% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 20.26 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 100
male: 23.7 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 16.66 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 75.52 years
country comparison to the world: 81
male: 72.58 years

female: 78.6 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.46 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 92


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


26,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


1,400 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 68


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Ecuadorian(s)

adjective: Ecuadorian



Ethnic groups:


mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian 25%, Spanish
and others 7%, black 3%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%



Languages:


Spanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially Quechua)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 91%

male: 92.3%

female: 89.7% (2001 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 14 years

male: 14 years

female: 14 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


1% of GDP (2001)
country comparison to the world: 182






Government ::Ecuador




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Ecuador

conventional short form: Ecuador

local long form: Republica del Ecuador

local short form: Ecuador



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Quito

geographic coordinates: 0 13 S, 78 30 W

time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


24 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Azuay, Bolivar,
Canar, Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El Oro, Esmeraldas, Galapagos,
Guayas, Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios, Manabi, Morona-Santiago, Napo,
Orellana, Pastaza, Pichincha, Santa Elena, Santo Domingo de los
Tsachilas, Sucumbios, Tungurahua, Zamora-Chinchipe



Independence:


24 May 1822 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day (independence of Quito), 10 August (1809)



Constitution:


20 October 2008



Legal system:


based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction



Suffrage:


16 years of age; universal, compulsory for persons ages 18-65,
optional for other eligible voters



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15 January
2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15
January 2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January
2007)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the president and vice president elected on the same
ticket by popular vote for a four-year term and can be re-elected
for another consecutive term; election last held on 26 April 2009
(next to be held in 2013)

election results: President Rafael CORREA Delgado reelected
president; percent of vote - Rafael CORREA Delgado 52%; Lucio
GUTIERREZ 28.2%; Alvaro NOBOA 11.4%; other 8.4%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (124 seats;
members are elected through a party-list proportional representation
system to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 26 April 2009 (next to be held in 2013)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PAIS 59, PSP 19, PSC 11, PRIAN 7, MPD 5, PRE 3, other 20; note -
defections by members of National Assembly are commonplace,
resulting in frequent changes in the numbers of seats held by the
various parties



Judicial branch:


National Court of Justice or Corte Nacional de Justicia (according
to the Constitution, justices are elected through a procedure
overseen by the Judiciary Council); Constitutional Court or Corte
Constitucional (Constitutional Court justices are appointed by a
commission composed of two delegates each from the Executive,
Legislative, and Transparency branches of government)



Political parties and leaders:


Alianza PAIS movement [Rafael Vicente CORREA Delgado]; Christian
Democratic Union or UDC [Luis ACOSTA Moreta]; Democratic Left or ID
[Dalton BACIGALUPO]; Ethical and Democratic Network or RED [Martha
ROLDOS]; Institutional Renewal and National Action Party or PRIAN
[Vicente TAIANO]; Pachakutik Plurinational Unity Movement - New
Country or MUPP-NP [Jorge GUAMAN Coronel]; Patriotic Society Party
or PSP [Lucio GUTIERREZ Borbua]; Popular Democratic Movement or MPD
[Luis VILLACIS]; Roldosist Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Pulley,
director]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Pascual DEL CIOPPO];
Socialist Party - Broad Front or PS-FA [Silvia SALGADO]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador or CONAIE
[Marlon SANTI, president]; Coordinator of Social Movements or CMS
[F. Napoleon SALTOS]; Federation of Indigenous Evangelists of
Ecuador or FEINE [Manuel CHUGCHILAN, president]; National Federation
of Indigenous Afro-Ecuatorianos and Peasants or FENOCIN [Luis
Alberto ANDRANGO Cadena, president]



International organization participation:


CAN, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH,
NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Luis Benigno GALLEGOS Chiriboga

chancery: 2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 234-7200

FAX: [1] (202) 667-3482

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Newark (New Jersey), San Francisco



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Heather HODGES

embassy: Avenida Avigiras E12-170 y Avenida Eloy Alfaro, Quito

mailing address: Avenida Guayacanes N52-205 y Avenida Avigiras

telephone: [593] (2) 398-5000

FAX: [593] (2) 398-5100

consulate(s) general: Guayaquil



Flag description:


three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue, and red
with the coat of arms superimposed at the center of the flag; the
flag retains the three main colors of the banner of Gran Columbia,
the South American republic that broke up in 1830; the yellow color
represents sunshine, grain, and mineral wealth, blue the sky, sea,
and rivers, and red the blood of patriots spilled in the struggle
for freedom and justice

note: similar to the flag of Colombia, which is shorter and does not
bear a coat of arms



National anthem:


name: "Salve, Oh Patria!" (We Salute You Our Homeland)

lyrics/music: Juan Leon MERA/Antonio NEUMANE

note: adopted 1948; Juan Leon MERA wrote the lyrics in 1865; only
the chorus and second verse are sung







Economy ::Ecuador




Economy - overview:


Ecuador is substantially dependent on its petroleum resources, which
have accounted for more than half of the country's export earnings
and one-fourth of public sector revenues in recent years. In
1999/2000, Ecuador suffered a severe economic crisis, with GDP
contracting by more than 6%. Poverty increased significantly, the
banking system collapsed, and Ecuador defaulted on its external debt
later that year. In March 2000, the Congress approved a series of
structural reforms that also provided for the adoption of the US
dollar as legal tender. Dollarization stabilized the economy, and
positive growth returned in the years that followed, helped by high
oil prices, remittances, and increased non-traditional exports. From
2002-06 the economy grew 5.5%, the highest five-year average in 25
years. After moderate growth in 2007, the economy reached a growth
rate of 7.2% in 2008, in large part due to high global petroleum
prices. President Rafael CORREA, who took office in January 2007,
defaulted on Ecuador's sovereign debt in December 2008, refusing to
make payment on $3.2 billion in international bonds, representing
over 80% of Ecuador's private external debt. Economic policies under
the CORREA administration - including an announcement in late 2009
terminating 13 bilateral investment treaties - have generated
economic uncertainty and discouraged private investment. The
Ecuadorian economy slowed to 0.4% growth in 2009 due to the global
financial crisis, and the sharp decline in world oil prices and
remittance flows, but picked up to a 2.4% growth rate in 2010.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$114.7 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65
$112 billion (2009 est.)

$111.6 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$61.49 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 142
0.4% (2009 est.)

7.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$7,800 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125
$7,700 (2009 est.)

$7,800 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 6.8%

industry: 32.9%

services: 60.3% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


4.59 million (urban) (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 8.3%

industry: 21.2%

services: 70.4% (2005)



Unemployment rate:


7.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82
8.5% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


35.1% (2008)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1.2%

highest 10%: 43.3%

note: data for urban households only (2007)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


47.9 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 31
50.5 (2006)

note: data are for urban households



Investment (gross fixed):


23.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Public debt:


23.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
19.7% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3.6% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
8.4% (2008 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


9.19% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 50
9.14% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


19% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 102
9.14% (31 December 2008)



Stock of narrow money:


$6.198 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 83
$5.201 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$18.62 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85
$15.47 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$14.92 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$12.31 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$4.248 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 83
$4.562 billion (31 December 2008)

$4.266 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca), plantains,
sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork, dairy products; balsa
wood; fish, shrimp



Industries:


petroleum, food processing, textiles, wood products, chemicals



Industrial production growth rate:


2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 127


Electricity - production:


16.42 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Electricity - consumption:


15.81 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75


Electricity - exports:


20.68 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


1.12 billion kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


485,700 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


Oil - consumption:


181,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Oil - exports:


327,600 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 37


Oil - imports:


54,190 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Oil - proved reserves:


6.542 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


Natural gas - production:


260 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71


Natural gas - consumption:


260 million cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Natural gas - proved reserves:


7.985 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82


Current account balance:


-$692 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125
-$337.4 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$17.37 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
$14.35 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum, bananas, cut flowers, shrimp, cacao, coffee, hemp, wood,
fish



Exports - partners:


US 33.5%, Peru 6.8%, Chile 6.5%, Columbia 4.9%, Colombia 4.58%,
Russia 4.11% (2009)



Imports:


$17.65 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 76
$14.27 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


industrial materials, fuels and lubricants, nondurable consumer goods



Imports - partners:


US 25.4%, Columbia 10.6%, Venezuela 6.5%, Brazil 4.5%, Brazil 4.35%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.59 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83
$3.792 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$14.71 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
$13.48 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$12.3 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 78
$11.95 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$8.019 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


1 (2010), 1 (2009)

note: the US dollar is legal tender







Communications ::Ecuador




Telephones - main lines in use:


2.004 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 56


Telephones - mobile cellular:


13.635 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 52


Telephone system:


general assessment: generally elementary but being expanded

domestic: fixed-line services provided by multiple
telecommunications operators; fixed-line teledensity stands at about
14 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular use has surged and
subscribership reached about 95 per 100 persons in 2009

international: country code - 593; landing points for the PAN-AM and
South America-1 submarine cables that provide links to the west
coast of South America, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, and extending
onward to Aruba and the US Virgin Islands in the Caribbean;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


private broadcast media dominate; all stations are privately-owned
except for 1 government-controlled station; multiple television
networks, a number of national TV channels, and a large number of
local channels; more than 400 radio stations; broadcast media
required by law to give the government free air time to broadcast
programs produced by the state (2007)



Internet country code:


.ec



Internet hosts:


67,975 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 82


Internet users:


3.352 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 64






Transportation ::Ecuador




Airports:


428 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 18


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 105

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 5

1,524 to 2,437 m: 17

914 to 1,523 m: 25

under 914 m: 55 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 323

914 to 1,523 m: 39

under 914 m: 284 (2010)



Heliports:


2 (2010)



Pipelines:


extra heavy crude 435 km; gas 5 km; oil 1,374 km; refined products
1,301 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 965 km
country comparison to the world: 91
narrow gauge: 965 km 1.067-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 43,670 km
country comparison to the world: 86
paved: 6,472 km

unpaved: 37,198 km (2006)



Waterways:


1,500 km (most inaccessible) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 54


Merchant marine:


total: 41
country comparison to the world: 76
by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas 1, passenger 9,
petroleum tanker 26, refrigerated cargo 1

registered in other countries: 7 (Bolivia 1, Panama 6) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, Manta, Puerto Bolivar







Military ::Ecuador




Military branches:


Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry, Naval Aviation, Coast Guard),
Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Ecuatoriana, FAE) (2007)



Military service age and obligation:


20 years of age for selective conscript military service; 12-month
service obligation (2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 3,662,176

females age 16-49: 3,781,102 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 2,770,465

females age 16-49: 3,217,235 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 150,296

female: 145,184 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.9% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 138






Transnational Issues ::Ecuador




Disputes - international:


organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia penetrate across
Ecuador's shared border, which thousands of Colombians also cross to
escape the violence in their home country



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 11,526 (Colombia); note - UNHCR
estimates as many as 250,000 Columbians are seeking asylum in
Ecuador, many of whom do not register as refugees for fear of
deportation (2007)



Illicit drugs:


significant transit country for cocaine originating in Colombia and
Peru, with much of the US-bound cocaine passing through Ecuadorian
Pacific waters; importer of precursor chemicals used in production
of illicit narcotics; attractive location for cash-placement by drug
traffickers laundering money because of dollarization and weak
anti-money-laundering regime; increased activity on the northern
frontier by trafficking groups and Colombian insurgents (2008)









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Egypt  (Africa)

Introduction ::Egypt




Background:


The regularity and richness of the annual Nile River flood, coupled
with semi-isolation provided by deserts to the east and west,
allowed for the development of one of the world's great
civilizations. A unified kingdom arose circa 3200 B.C., and a series
of dynasties ruled in Egypt for the next three millennia. The last
native dynasty fell to the Persians in 341 B.C., who in turn were
replaced by the Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines. It was the Arabs who
introduced Islam and the Arabic language in the 7th century and who
ruled for the next six centuries. A local military caste, the
Mamluks took control about 1250 and continued to govern after the
conquest of Egypt by the Ottoman Turks in 1517. Following the
completion of the Suez Canal in 1869, Egypt became an important
world transportation hub, but also fell heavily into debt.
Ostensibly to protect its investments, Britain seized control of
Egypt's government in 1882, but nominal allegiance to the Ottoman
Empire continued until 1914. Partially independent from the UK in
1922, Egypt acquired full sovereignty with the overthrow of the
British-backed monarchy in 1952. The completion of the Aswan High
Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the
time-honored place of the Nile River in the agriculture and ecology
of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in the Arab
world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all continue
to overtax resources and stress society. The government has
struggled to meet the demands of Egypt's growing population through
economic reform and massive investment in communications and
physical infrastructure.







Geography ::Egypt




Location:


Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Libya and
the Gaza Strip, and the Red Sea north of Sudan, and includes the
Asian Sinai Peninsula



Geographic coordinates:


27 00 N, 30 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 1,001,450 sq km
country comparison to the world: 30
land: 995,450 sq km

water: 6,000 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico



Land boundaries:


total: 2,665 km

border countries: Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 266 km, Libya 1,115 km,
Sudan 1,273 km



Coastline:


2,450 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation



Climate:


desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters



Terrain:


vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Qattara Depression -133 m

highest point: Mount Catherine 2,629 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese, limestone,
gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, rare earth elements, zinc



Land use:


arable land: 2.92%

permanent crops: 0.5%

other: 96.58% (2005)



Irrigated land:


34,220 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


86.8 cu km (1997)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 68.3 cu km/yr (8%/6%/86%)

per capita: 923 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


periodic droughts; frequent earthquakes; flash floods; landslides;
hot, driving windstorm called khamsin occurs in spring; dust storms;
sandstorms



Environment - current issues:


agricultural land being lost to urbanization and windblown sands;
increasing soil salination below Aswan High Dam; desertification;
oil pollution threatening coral reefs, beaches, and marine habitats;
other water pollution from agricultural pesticides, raw sewage, and
industrial effluents; limited natural fresh water resources away
from the Nile, which is the only perennial water source; rapid
growth in population overstraining the Nile and natural resources



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between Africa and
remainder of Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal, a sea link
between Indian Ocean and Mediterranean Sea; size, and juxtaposition
to Israel, establish its major role in Middle Eastern geopolitics;
dependence on upstream neighbors; dominance of Nile basin issues;
prone to influxes of refugees







People ::Egypt




Population:


80,471,869 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16


Age structure:


0-14 years: 33% (male 13,308,407/female 12,711,900)

15-64 years: 62.7% (male 25,138,546/female 24,342,230)

65 years and over: 4.3% (male 1,546,774/female 1,818,778) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 24 years

male: 23.8 years

female: 24.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


1.997% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 58


Birth rate:


25.02 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


Death rate:


4.85 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191


Net migration rate:


-0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130


Urbanization:


urban population: 43% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.8% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female

total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 26.2 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 82
male: 27.84 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 24.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 72.4 years
country comparison to the world: 122
male: 69.82 years

female: 75.1 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


3.01 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


less than 0.1% (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 163


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


9,200 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: Rift Valley fever

water contact disease: schistosomiasis

note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Egyptian(s)

adjective: Egyptian



Ethnic groups:


Egyptian 99.6%, other 0.4% (2006 census)



Religions:


Muslim (mostly Sunni) 90%, Coptic 9%, other Christian 1%



Languages:


Arabic (official), English and French widely understood by educated
classes



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 71.4%

male: 83%

female: 59.4% (2005 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 11 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


3.8% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 113






Government ::Egypt




Country name:


conventional long form: Arab Republic of Egypt

conventional short form: Egypt

local long form: Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah

local short form: Misr

former: United Arab Republic (with Syria)



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Cairo

geographic coordinates: 30 03 N, 31 15 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in April; ends first
Friday in August



Administrative divisions:


29 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazat); Ad Daqahliyah, Al
Bahr al Ahmar (Red Sea), Al Buhayrah (El Beheira), Al Fayyum (El
Faiyum), Al Gharbiyah, Al Iskandariyah (Alexandria), Al Isma'iliyah
(Ismailia), Al Jizah (Giza), Al Minufiyah (El Monofia), Al Minya, Al
Qahirah (Cairo), Al Qalyubiyah, Al Uqsur, Al Wadi al Jadid (New
Valley), As Suways (Suez), Ash Sharqiyah, Aswan, Asyut, Bani Suwayf
(Beni Suef), Bur Sa'id (Port Said), Dumyat (Damietta), Helwan, Janub
Sina' (South Sinai), Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh (Western Desert), Qina
(Qena), Shamal Sina' (North Sinai), Sittah Uktubar, Suhaj (Sohag)



Independence:


28 February 1922 (from UK protectorate status; the revolution that
began 23 July 1952 led to a republic being declared on 18 June 1953
and all British troops withdrawn 18 June 1956); note - it was in ca.
3200 B.C. that the Two Lands of Upper (southern) and Lower
(northern) Egypt were first united politically



National holiday:


Revolution Day, 23 July (1952)



Constitution:


11 September 1971; amended 22 May 1980, 25 May 2005, and 26 March
2007



Legal system:


based on Islamic and civil law (particularly Napoleonic codes);
judicial review by Supreme Court and Council of State (oversees
validity of administrative decisions); accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal and compulsory



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK (since 14 October
1981)

head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed Mohamed NAZIF (since 9 July
2004)

cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term (no
term limits); note - a national referendum in May 2005 approved a
constitutional amendment that changed the presidential election to a
multicandidate popular vote; previously the president was nominated
by the People's Assembly and the nomination was validated by a
national, popular referendum; last referendum held on 26 September
1999; first election under terms of the constitutional amendment
held on 7 September 2005 (next scheduled for 2011)

election results: Hosni MUBARAK reelected president; percent of vote
- Hosni MUBARAK 88.6%, Ayman NOUR 7.6%, Noman GOMAA 2.9%



Legislative branch:


bicameral system consists of the Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura
(Shura Council) that traditionally functions only in a consultative
role (264 seats; 176 members elected by popular vote, 88 appointed
by the president; members serve six-year terms; mid-term elections
for half of the elected members) and the People's Assembly or Majlis
al-Sha'b (518 seats; 508 members elected by popular vote, 64 seats
reserved for women, 10 appointed by the president; members serve
five-year terms)

elections: Advisory Council - last held in June 2007 (next to be
held in 2013); People's Assembly - last held in November-December
2010 in one round of voting and one run-off election (next to be
held in 2015)

election results: Advisory Council - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - NDP 80, Al-Geel 1, Nasserist 1, NWP 1, Tagammu 1,
Tomorrow Party 1, independents 3; People's Assembly - percent of
vote by party - NA; seats by party - NDP 419, NWP 6, Tagammu 5,
Democratic Peace Party 1, Social Justice Party 1, Tomorrow Party 1,
independents 71, seats undecided 4, seats appointed by president 10



Judicial branch:


Supreme Constitutional Court



Political parties and leaders:


Al-Geel; Democratic Peace Party; Nasserist Party [Ahmed HASSAN];
National Democratic Party or NDP (governing party) [Mohamed Hosni
MUBARAK]; National Progressive Unionist Grouping or Tagammu [Rifaat
EL-SAID]; New Wafd Party or NWP [Sayed EL-BEDAWY]; Social Justice
Party [Mohamed Abdel Al HASAN]; Tomorrow Party [Ayman NOURI]

note: formation of political parties must be approved by the
government; only parties with representation in elected bodies are
listed



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Muslim Brotherhood (technically illegal)

note: despite a constitutional ban against religious-based parties
and political activity, the technically illegal Muslim Brotherhood
constitutes Egypt's most potentially significant political
opposition; President MUBARAK has alternated between tolerating
limited political activity by the Brotherhood and blocking its
influence (its members compete as independents in elections but do
not currently hold any seats in the legislature); civic society
groups are sanctioned, but constrained in practical terms; only
trade unions and professional associations affiliated with the
government are officially sanctioned; Internet social networking
groups and bloggers



International organization participation:


ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, BSEC (observer), CAEU, CICA, COMESA,
D-8, EBRD, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUSCO, NAM, OAPEC, OAS
(observer), OIC, OIF, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Sameh Hassan SHOUKRY

chancery: 3521 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 895-5400

FAX: [1] (202) 244-4319

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, New York, San Francisco



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Margaret SCOBEY

embassy: 8 Kamal El Din Salah St., Garden City, Cairo

mailing address: Unit 64900, Box 15, APO AE 09839-4900; 5 Tawfik
Diab Street, Garden City, Cairo

telephone: [20] (2) 2797-3300

FAX: [20] (2) 2797-3200



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; the
national emblem (a gold Eagle of Saladin facing the hoist side with
a shield superimposed on its chest above a scroll bearing the name
of the country in Arabic) centered in the white band; the band
colors derive from the Arab Liberation flag and represent oppression
(black), overcome through bloody struggle (red), to be replaced by a
bright future (white)

note: similar to the flag of Syria, which has two green stars in the
white band, Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the
white band, and Yemen, which has a plain white band



National anthem:


name: "Bilady, Bilady, Bilady" (My Homeland, My Homeland, My
Homeland)

lyrics/music: Younis-al QADI/Sayed DARWISH

note: adopted 1979; after the signing of the 1979 peace with Israel,
Egypt sought to create an anthem less militaristic than its previous
one; Sayed DARWISH, commonly considered the father of modern
Egyptian music, composed the anthem







Economy ::Egypt




Economy - overview:


Occupying the northeast corner of the African continent, Egypt is
bisected by the highly fertile Nile valley, where most economic
activity takes place. Egypt's economy was highly centralized during
the rule of former President Gamal Abdel NASSER but has opened up
considerably under former President Anwar EL-SADAT and current
President Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK. Cairo from 2004 to 2008
aggressively pursued economic reforms to attract foreign investment
and facilitate GDP growth. The global financial crisis has slowed
the reform efforts. The budget deficit climbed to over 8% of GDP and
Egypt's GDP growth slowed to 4.6% in 2009, predominately due to
reduced growth in export-oriented sectors, including manufacturing
and tourism, and Suez Canal revenues. In 2010, the government spent
more on infrastructure and public projects, and exports drove GDP
growth to more than 5%, but GDP growth in 2011 is unlikely to bounce
back to pre-global financial recession levels, when it stood at 7%.
Despite the relatively high levels of economic growth over the past
few years, living conditions for the average Egyptian remain poor.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$500.9 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27
$475.7 billion (2009 est.)

$454.8 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$216.8 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


5.3% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
4.6% (2009 est.)

7.2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$6,200 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 136
$6,000 (2009 est.)

$5,900 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 13.5%

industry: 37.9%

services: 48.6% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


26.1 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 21


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 32%

industry: 17%

services: 51% (2001 est.)



Unemployment rate:


9.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108
9.4% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


20% (2005 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 3.9%

highest 10%: 27.6% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


34.4 (2001)
country comparison to the world: 90


Investment (gross fixed):


18.4% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Public debt:


80.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 17
80.9% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


12.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 210
11.9% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


8.5% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 36
11.5% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


11.98% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
12.33% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$37.8 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 49
$33.42 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$166.2 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
$146.7 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$145.6 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
$131.5 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$89.95 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 40
$85.89 billion (31 December 2008)

$139.3 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits, vegetables; cattle, water
buffalo, sheep, goats



Industries:


textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
hydrocarbons, construction, cement, metals, light manufactures



Industrial production growth rate:


5.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Electricity - production:


118.4 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28


Electricity - consumption:


104.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Electricity - exports:


814 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


251 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


680,500 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 29


Oil - consumption:


683,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Oil - exports:


89,300 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Oil - imports:


48,450 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


Oil - proved reserves:


4.3 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Natural gas - production:


62.7 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 14


Natural gas - consumption:


42.5 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20


Natural gas - exports:


8.55 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 23


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Natural gas - proved reserves:


1.656 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


Current account balance:


$270 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 53
-$3.195 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$25.34 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64
$23.09 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


crude oil and petroleum products, cotton, textiles, metal products,
chemicals, processed food



Exports - partners:


US 7.95%, Italy 7.26%, Spain 6.78%, India 6.69%, Saudi Arabia 5.53%,
Syria 5.3%, France 4.39%, South Korea 4.27% (2009)



Imports:


$46.52 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 49
$45.56 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, wood products, fuels



Imports - partners:


US 9.92%, China 9.63%, Germany 6.98%, Italy 6.88%, Turkey 4.94%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$35.72 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32
$33.93 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$30.61 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 65
$29.66 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$72.41 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46
$66.71 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$4.9 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59
$4.272 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Egyptian pounds (EGP) per US dollar - 5.6124 (2010), 5.545 (2009),
5.4 (2008), 5.67 (2007), 5.725 (2006)







Communications ::Egypt




Telephones - main lines in use:


10.313 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 21


Telephones - mobile cellular:


55.352 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 19


Telephone system:


general assessment: underwent extensive upgrading during 1990s;
principal centers at Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah, Ismailia, Suez,
and Tanta are connected by coaxial cable and microwave radio relay

domestic: largest fixed-line system in the region; as of 2010 there
were three mobile-cellular networks with a total of more than 55
million subscribers

international: country code - 20; landing point for Aletar, the
SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable networks, Link Around
the Globe (FLAG) Falcon and FLAG FEA; satellite earth stations - 4
(2 Intelsat - Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean, 1 Arabsat, and 1
Inmarsat); tropospheric scatter to Sudan; microwave radio relay to
Israel; a participant in Medarabtel (2009)



Broadcast media:


mix of state-run and private broadcast media; state-run TV operates
2 national and 6 regional terrestrial networks as well as a few
satellite channels; about 20 private satellite channels and a large
number of Arabic satellite channels are available via subscription;
state-run radio operates about 70 stations belonging to 8 networks;
2 privately-owned radio stations operational (2008)



Internet country code:


.eg



Internet hosts:


187,197 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 67


Internet users:


20.136 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 21






Transportation ::Egypt




Airports:


86 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 66


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 73

over 3,047 m: 15

2,438 to 3,047 m: 36

1,524 to 2,437 m: 15

914 to 1,523 m: 2

under 914 m: 5 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 13

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 3

914 to 1,523 m: 5

under 914 m: 4 (2010)



Heliports:


6 (2010)



Pipelines:


condensate 320 km; condensate/gas 13 km; gas 6,262 km; liquid
petroleum gas 956 km; oil 4,319 km; oil/gas/water 3 km; refined
products 895 km; unknown 59 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 5,500 km
country comparison to the world: 33
standard gauge: 5,500 km 1.435-m gauge (62 km electrified) (2009)



Roadways:


total: 65,050 km
country comparison to the world: 71
paved: 47,500 km

unpaved: 17,550 km (2009)



Waterways:


3,500 km
country comparison to the world: 30
note: includes Nile River, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway,
and numerous smaller canals in delta; Suez Canal (193.5 km including
approaches) navigable by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 17.68 m
(2010)



Merchant marine:


total: 66
country comparison to the world: 63
by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 24, container 3, passenger/cargo 7,
petroleum tanker 12, roll on/roll off 9

foreign-owned: 13 (Denmark 1, France 1, Greece 8, Jordan 2, Lebanon
1)

registered in other countries: 52 (Cambodia 12, Cook Islands 1,
Georgia 11, Honduras 2, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 1, Moldova 5,
Panama 11, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4, Saudi Arabia 1,
Sierra Leone 2, unknown 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Ayn Sukhnah, Alexandria, Damietta, El Dekheila, Port Said, Sidi
Kurayr, Suez







Military ::Egypt




Military branches:


Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command



Military service age and obligation:


18-30 years of age for male conscript military service; service
obligation 12-36 months, followed by a 9-year reserve obligation
(2008)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 20,619,887

females age 16-49: 19,785,004 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 17,733,851

females age 16-49: 16,942,010 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 799,377

female: 764,602 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35






Transnational Issues ::Egypt




Disputes - international:


Sudan claims but Egypt de facto administers security and economic
development of Halaib region north of the 22nd parallel boundary;
Egypt no longer shows its administration of the Bir Tawil trapezoid
in Sudan on its maps; Gazan breaches in the security wall with Egypt
in January 2008 highlight difficulties in monitoring the Sinai
border; Saudi Arabia claims Egyptian-administered islands of Tiran
and Sanafir



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 60,000 - 80,000 (Iraq); 70,198
(Palestinian Territories); 12,157 (Sudan) (2007)



Illicit drugs:


transit point for cannabis, heroin, and opium moving to Europe,
Israel, and North Africa; transit stop for Nigerian drug couriers;
concern as money laundering site due to lax enforcement of financial
regulations









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@El Salvador  (Central America and Caribbean)

Introduction ::El Salvador




Background:


El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and from the
Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil war, which cost
about 75,000 lives, was brought to a close in 1992 when the
government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that provided for
military and political reforms.







Geography ::El Salvador




Location:


Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
Guatemala and Honduras



Geographic coordinates:


13 50 N, 88 55 W



Map references:


Central America and the Caribbean



Area:


total: 21,041 sq km
country comparison to the world: 153
land: 20,721 sq km

water: 320 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Massachusetts



Land boundaries:


total: 545 km

border countries: Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km



Coastline:


307 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

contiguous zone: 24 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season (November to
April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands



Terrain:


mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central plateau



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point: Cerro El Pital 2,730 m



Natural resources:


hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable land



Land use:


arable land: 31.37%

permanent crops: 11.88%

other: 56.75% (2005)



Irrigated land:


450 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


25.2 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 1.28 cu km/yr (25%/16%/59%)

per capita: 186 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


known as the Land of Volcanoes; frequent and sometimes destructive
earthquakes and volcanic activity; extremely susceptible to
hurricanes

volcanism: El Salvador experiences significant volcanic activity;
San Salvador (elev. 1,893 m, 6,211 ft), which last erupted in 1917,
has the potential to cause major harm to the country's capital,
which lies just below the volcano's slopes; San Miguel (elev. 2,130
m, 6,988 ft), which last erupted in 2002, is one of the most active
volcanoes in the country; other historically active volcanoes
include Conchaguita, Ilopango, Izalco, and Santa Ana



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution; contamination of soils
from disposal of toxic wastes



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


smallest Central American country and only one without a coastline
on Caribbean Sea







People ::El Salvador




Population:


6,052,064 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Age structure:


0-14 years: 35.4% (male 1,299,608/female 1,245,617)

15-64 years: 59.3% (male 2,033,423/female 2,225,810)

65 years and over: 5.3% (male 166,224/female 214,536) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 23.9 years

male: 22.5 years

female: 25.3 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.332% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Birth rate:


18.06 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 109


Death rate:


5.61 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174


Net migration rate:


-9.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 212


Urbanization:


urban population: 61% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.9% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.89 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female

total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 20.97 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 98
male: 23.01 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 18.82 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 73.18 years
country comparison to the world: 116
male: 69.91 years

female: 76.62 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.12 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 119


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


0.8% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


35,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


1,700 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 64


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: dengue fever

water contact disease: leptospirosis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Salvadoran(s)

adjective: Salvadoran



Ethnic groups:


mestizo 90%, white 9%, Amerindian 1%



Religions:


Roman Catholic 57.1%, Protestant 21.2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.9%,
Mormon 0.7%, other religions 2.3%, none 16.8% (2003 est.)



Languages:


Spanish (official), Nahua (among some Amerindians)



Literacy:


definition: age 5 and over can read and write

total population: 81.1%

male: 82.8%

female: 79.6% (2007 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 12 years

male: 12 years

female: 12 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


3.6% of GDP (2008)
country comparison to the world: 128






Government ::El Salvador




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of El Salvador

conventional short form: El Salvador

local long form: Republica de El Salvador

local short form: El Salvador



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: San Salvador

geographic coordinates: 13 42 N, 89 12 W

time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)



Administrative divisions:


14 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Ahuachapan,
Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La Libertad, La Paz, La Union,
Morazan, San Miguel, San Salvador, San Vicente, Santa Ana,
Sonsonate, Usulutan



Independence:


15 September 1821 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 15 September (1821)



Constitution:


20 December 1983



Legal system:


based on civil and Roman law with traces of common law; judicial
review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Mauricio FUNES Cartagena (since 1 June
2009); Vice President Salvador SANCHEZ CEREN (since 1 June 2009);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government: President Mauricio FUNES Cartagena (since 1 June
2009); Vice President Salvador SANCHEZ CEREN (since 1 June 2009)

cabinet: Council of Ministers selected by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held on
15 March 2009 (next to be held in March 2014)

election results: Mauricio FUNES Cartagena elected president;
percent of vote - Mauricio FUNES Cartagena 51.3%, Rodrigo AVILA 48.7%



Legislative branch:


unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa (84 seats;
members elected by direct, popular vote to serve three-year terms)

elections: last held on 18 January 2009 (next to be held in March
2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FMLN 35, ARENA 32, PCN 11, PDC 5, CD 1; note - as of 1 January 2011,
the current composition of the legislature by seats is as follows:
FMLN 35, ARENA 19, GANA 16, PCN 10, PDC 2, CD 1, Independent 1



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (15 judges are selected by the
Legislative Assembly; the 15 judges are assigned to four Supreme
Court chambers - constitutional, civil, penal, and administrative
conflict)



Political parties and leaders:


Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Rodolfo PARKER]; Democratic
Convergence or CD [Oscar KATTAN] (formerly United Democratic Center
or CDU); Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN [Medardo
GONZALEZ]; National Conciliation Party or PCN [Ciro CRUZ ZEPEDA];
Nationalist Republican Alliance or ARENA [Alfredo CRISTIANI]; Great
Alliance for National Unity or GANA [Andres ROVIRA]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


labor organizations - Electrical Industry Union of El Salvador or
SIES; Federation of the Construction Industry, Similar Transport and
other activities, or FESINCONTRANS; National Confederation of
Salvadoran Workers or CNTS; National Union of Salvadoran Workers or
UNTS; Port Industry Union of El Salvador or SIPES; Salvadoran Union
of Ex-Petrolleros and Peasant Workers or USEPOC; Salvadoran Workers
Central or CTS; Workers Union of Electrical Corporation or STCEL;
business organizations - National Association of Small Enterprise or
ANEP; Salvadoran Assembly Industry Association or ASIC; Salvadoran
Industrial Association or ASI



International organization participation:


BCIE, CACM, CD, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA,
MINURSO, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, SICA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Francisco Robert ALTSCHUL Fuentes

chancery: Suite 100, 1400 16th Street, Washington, DC 20036

telephone: [1] (202) 265-9671

FAX: [1] (202) 234-3763

consulate(s) general: Chicago, Dallas, Duluth (Georgia), Houston,
Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York (2), Nogales (Arizona),
Santa Ana (California), San Francisco, Washington (DC), Woodbridge
(Virginia)

consulate(s): Boston, Elizabeth (New Jersey)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Robert BLAU

embassy: Final Boulevard Santa Elena Sur, Antiguo Cuscatlan, La
Libertad, San Salvador

mailing address: Unit 3450, APO AA 34023; 3450 San Salvador Place,
Washington, DC 20521-3450

telephone: [503] 2501-2999

FAX: [503] 2501-2150



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the
national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms
features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL
SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; the banner is based on the former
blue-white-blue flag of the Federal Republic of Central America; the
blue bands symbolize the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, while
the white band represents the land between the two bodies of water,
as well as peace and prosperity

note: similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which has a different coat
of arms centered in the white band - it features a triangle
encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA
CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which
has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white
band



National anthem:


name: "Himno Nacional de El Salvador" (National Anthem of El
Salvador)

lyrics/music: Juan Jose CANAS/Juan ABERLE

note: officially adopted 1953, in use since 1879; the anthem of El
Salvador is one of the world's longest







Economy ::El Salvador




Economy - overview:


Despite being the smallest country geographically in Central
America, El Salvador has the third largest economy in the region.
The economy took a hit from the global recession and real GDP
contracted by 3.5% in 2009. The economy began a slow recovery in
2010 on the back of improved export and remittances figures.
Remittances accounted for 16% of GDP in 2009, and about a third of
all households receive these transfers. In 2006 El Salvador was the
first country to ratify the Dominican Republic-Central American Free
Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR), which has bolstered the export of
processed foods, sugar, and ethanol, and supported investment in the
apparel sector amid increased Asian competition and the expiration
of the Multi-Fiber Agreement in 2005. El Salvador has promoted an
open trade and investment environment, and has embarked on a wave of
privatizations extending to telecom, electricity distribution,
banking, and pension funds. In late 2006, the government and the
Millennium Challenge Corporation signed a five-year, $461 million
compact to stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty in the
country's northern region, the primary conflict zone during the
civil war, through investments in education, public services,
enterprise development, and transportation infrastructure. With the
adoption of the US dollar as its currency in 2001, El Salvador lost
control over monetary policy. Any counter-cyclical policy response
to the downturn must be through fiscal policy, which is constrained
by legislative requirements for a two-thirds majority to approve any
international financing.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$43.98 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 94
$43.46 billion (2009 est.)

$45.04 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$21.8 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 174
-3.5% (2009 est.)

2.4% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$7,300 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129
$7,200 (2009 est.)

$7,500 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 11%

industry: 29.1%

services: 59.9% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


2.94 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 19%

industry: 23%

services: 58% (2006 est.)



Unemployment rate:


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
7.2% (2009 est.)

note: data are official rates; but the economy has much
underemployment



Population below poverty line:


30.7% (2006 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 1%

highest 10%: 37% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


52.4 (2002)
country comparison to the world: 18
52.5 (2001)



Investment (gross fixed):


13.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140


Public debt:


55% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 45
52.3% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


0.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 16
-0.2% (2009)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


12.33% (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 120
7.81% (31 December 2007)



Stock of narrow money:


$2.534 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 117
$2.153 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$9.666 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101
$9.011 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$10.01 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 95
$9.867 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$4.432 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 82
$4.656 billion (31 December 2008)

$6.743 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed, cotton, sorghum; beef,
dairy products



Industries:


food processing, beverages, petroleum, chemicals, fertilizer,
textiles, furniture, light metals



Industrial production growth rate:


0.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 149


Electricity - production:


5.559 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110


Electricity - consumption:


4.676 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 111


Electricity - exports:


7 million kWh (2007 est.)



Electricity - imports:


38 million kWh (2007 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 179


Oil - consumption:


46,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Oil - exports:


1,927 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114


Oil - imports:


46,310 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 189


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 62


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 184


Current account balance:


-$907 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 132
-$374 million (2009)



Exports:


$4.377 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113
$3.797 billion (2009)



Exports - commodities:


offshore assembly exports, coffee, sugar, textiles and apparel,
gold, ethanol, chemicals, electricity, iron and steel manufactures



Exports - partners:


US 43.86%, Guatemala 13.92%, Honduras 13.22%, Nicaragua 5.65% (2009)



Imports:


$7.98 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99
$7.255 billion (2009)



Imports - commodities:


raw materials, consumer goods, capital goods, fuels, foodstuffs,
petroleum, electricity



Imports - partners:


US 29.79%, Mexico 10.26%, Guatemala 9.7%, China 4.5%, Honduras 4.4%
(2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$2.819 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$2.985 billion (31 December 2009)



Debt - external:


$11.45 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87
$10.83 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$7.522 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82
$7.132 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$273 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
$333 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


the US dollar became El Salvador's currency in 2001







Communications ::El Salvador




Telephones - main lines in use:


1.099 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 75


Telephones - mobile cellular:


7.566 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 78


Telephone system:


general assessment: multiple mobile-cellular providers are expanding
services rapidly and in 2009 teledensity exceeded 100 per 100
persons; growth in fixed-line services has slowed in the face of
mobile-cellular competition

domestic: nationwide microwave radio relay system

international: country code - 503; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave
System (2009)



Broadcast media:


multiple privately-owned national terrestrial television networks,
supplemented by cable TV networks that carry international channels;
hundreds of commercial radio broadcast stations and 1
government-owned radio broadcast station (2007)



Internet country code:


.sv



Internet hosts:


13,849 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 119


Internet users:


746,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 107






Transportation ::El Salvador




Airports:


65 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 75


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

over 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 61

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 13

under 914 m: 47 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Railways:


total: 283 km
country comparison to the world: 122
narrow gauge: 283 km 0.914-m gauge

note: railways have been inoperable since 2005 because of disuse and
high costs that led to a lack of maintenance (2008)



Roadways:


total: 10,886 km
country comparison to the world: 134
paved: 2,827 km (includes 327 km of expressways)

unpaved: 8,059 km (2000)



Waterways:


Rio Lempa is partially navigable for small craft (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Acajutla, Puerto Cutuco







Military ::El Salvador




Military branches:


Salvadoran Army (ES), Salvadoran Navy (FNES), Salvadoran Air Force
(Fuerza Aerea Salvadorena, FAS) (2008)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for selective compulsory military service; 16-22
years of age for voluntary male or female service; service
obligation - 12 months, with 11 months for officers and NCOs (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,426,142

females age 16-49: 1,590,778 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,056,532

females age 16-49: 1,356,824 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 71,292

female: 68,821 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.6% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 160






Transnational Issues ::El Salvador




Disputes - international:


International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the delimitation of
"bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El Salvador-Honduras boundary,
in 1992, with final agreement by the parties in 2006 after an
Organization of American States (OAS) survey and a further ICJ
ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised a tripartite resolution
to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca advocating Honduran
access to the Pacific; El Salvador continues to claim tiny Conejo
Island, not identified in the ICJ decision, off Honduras in the Gulf
of Fonseca



Illicit drugs:


transshipment point for cocaine; small amounts of marijuana produced
for local consumption; significant use of cocaine









page last updated on January 19, 2011

======================================================================




@Equatorial Guinea  (Africa)

Introduction ::Equatorial Guinea




Background:


Equatorial Guinea gained independence in 1968 after 190 years of
Spanish rule. This tiny country, composed of a mainland portion plus
five inhabited islands, is one of the smallest on the African
continent. President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO has ruled the
country since 1979 when he seized power in a coup. Although
nominally a constitutional democracy since 1991, the 1996, 2002, and
2009 presidential elections - as well as the 1999 and 2004
legislative elections - were widely seen as flawed. The president
exerts almost total control over the political system and has
discouraged political opposition. Equatorial Guinea has experienced
rapid economic growth due to the discovery of large offshore oil
reserves, and in the last decade has become Sub-Saharan Africa's
third largest oil exporter. Despite the country's economic windfall
from oil production resulting in a massive increase in government
revenue in recent years, there have been few improvements in the
population's living standards.







Geography ::Equatorial Guinea




Location:


Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Cameroon and
Gabon



Geographic coordinates:


2 00 N, 10 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 28,051 sq km
country comparison to the world: 145
land: 28,051 sq km

water: 0 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Maryland



Land boundaries:


total: 539 km

border countries: Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km



Coastline:


296 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: 200 nm



Climate:


tropical; always hot, humid



Terrain:


coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands are volcanic



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Pico Basile 3,008 m



Natural resources:


petroleum, natural gas, timber, gold, bauxite, diamonds, tantalum,
sand and gravel, clay



Land use:


arable land: 4.63%

permanent crops: 3.57%

other: 91.8% (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Total renewable water resources:


26 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.11 cu km/yr (83%/16%/1%)

per capita: 220 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


violent windstorms; flash floods

volcanism: Santa Isabel (elev. 3,007 m, 9,865 ft), which last
erupted in 1923, is the country's only historically active volcano;
Santa Isabel, along with two dormant volcanoes, forms Bioko Island
in the Gulf of Guinea



Environment - current issues:


tap water is not potable; deforestation



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


insular and continental regions widely separated







People ::Equatorial Guinea




Population:


650,702 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 166


Age structure:


0-14 years: 41.9% (male 134,823/female 130,308)

15-64 years: 54% (male 167,820/female 174,238)

65 years and over: 4.1% (male 11,574/female 14,678) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 19 years

male: 18.4 years

female: 19.6 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.674% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 24


Birth rate:


36 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Death rate:


9.26 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 74


Urbanization:


urban population: 39% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2.8% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female

total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 79.47 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 14
male: 80.55 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 78.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 61.98 years
country comparison to the world: 182
male: 61.05 years

female: 62.94 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


5 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


3.4% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


11,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


370 (2001 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: very high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria and yellow fever

animal contact disease: rabies (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s)

adjective: Equatorial Guinean or Equatoguinean



Ethnic groups:


Fang 85.7%, Bubi 6.5%, Mdowe 3.6%, Annobon 1.6%, Bujeba 1.1%, other
1.4% (1994 census)



Religions:


nominally Christian and predominantly Roman Catholic, pagan practices



Languages:


Spanish 67.6% (official), other 32.4% (includes French (official),
Fang, Bubi) (1994 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 87%

male: 93.4%

female: 80.5% (2000 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 8 years

male: 9 years

female: 7 years (2000)



Education expenditures:


0.6% of GDP (2003)
country comparison to the world: 185






Government ::Equatorial Guinea




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Equatorial Guinea

conventional short form: Equatorial Guinea

local long form: Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial/Republique de Guinee
equatoriale

local short form: Guinea Ecuatorial/Guinee equatoriale

former: Spanish Guinea



Government type:


republic



Capital:


name: Malabo

geographic coordinates: 3 45 N, 8 47 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Annobon, Bioko
Norte, Bioko Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem, Litoral, Wele-Nzas



Independence:


12 October 1968 (from Spain)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 12 October (1968)



Constitution:


approved by national referendum 17 November 1991; amended January
1995



Legal system:


partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal custom; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA
MBASOGO (since 3 August 1979 when he seized power in a military coup)

head of government: Prime Minister Ignacio MILAM Tang (since 8 July
2008);

cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(no term limits); election last held on 29 November 2009 (next to be
held in 2016); prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed
by the president

election results: Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO reelected president;
percent of vote - Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO 95.8%, Placido Mico
ABOGO 3.6%; elections marred by widespread fraud



Legislative branch:


unicameral House of People's Representatives or Camara de
Representantes del Pueblo (100 seats; members directly elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 4 May 2008 (next to be held in 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PDGE 89, EC 10, CPDS 1

note: Parliament has little power since the constitution vests all
executive authority in the president



Judicial branch:


Supreme Tribunal



Political parties and leaders:


Convergence Party for Social Democracy or CPDS [Placido MICO Abogo];
Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea or PDGE [Teodoro OBIANG
NGUEMA MBASOGO] (ruling party); Electoral Coalition or EC; Party for
Progress of Equatorial Guinea or PPGE [Severo MOTO]; Popular Action
of Equatorial Guinea or APGE [Avelino MOCACHE]; Popular Union or UP



Political pressure groups and leaders:


ASODEGUE (Madrid-based pressure group for democratic reform); Global
Witness (anti-corruption)



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, CPLP (associate), FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD,
ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Purificacion ANGUE ONDO

chancery: 2020 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 518-5700

FAX: [1] (202) 518-5252



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Alberto M. FERNANDEZ

embassy: K-3, Carreterade Aeropuerto, al lado de Restaurante El
Paraiso, Malabo; note - relocated embassy is opened for limited
functions; inquiries should continue to be directed to the US
Embassy in Yaounde, Cameroon

mailing address: B.P. 817, Yaounde, Cameroon; US Embassy Yaounde, US
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520

telephone: [237] 2220-1500

FAX: [237] 2220-1572



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red, with a
blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side and the coat of arms
centered in the white band; the coat of arms has six yellow
six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and five offshore
islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton tree and below
which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ, JUSTICIA (Unity,
Peace, Justice); green symbolizes the jungle and natural resources,
blue represents the sea that connects the mainland to the islands,
white stands for peace, and red recalls the fight for independence



National anthem:


name: "Caminemos pisando la senda" (Let Us Tread the Path)

lyrics/music: Atanasio Ndongo MIYONO/Atanasio Ndongo MIYONO or
Ramiro Sanchez LOPEZ (disputed)

note: adopted 1968







Economy ::Equatorial Guinea




Economy - overview:


The discovery and exploitation of large oil reserves have
contributed to dramatic economic growth but fluctuating oil prices
have produced huge swings in GDP growth in recent years. Forestry,
farming, and fishing are also major components of GDP. Subsistence
farming is the dominate form of livelihood. Although
pre-independence Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for
hard currency earnings, the neglect of the rural economy under
successive regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led
growth (the government has stated its intention to reinvest some oil
revenue into agriculture). A number of aid programs sponsored by the
World Bank and the IMF have been cut off since 1993 because of
corruption and mismanagement. Government officials and their family
members own most businesses, but corruption is rampant. Undeveloped
natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium,
and alluvial gold. Growth remained strong in 2008, led by oil, but
dropped in 2009-10, as the price of oil fell.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$24.66 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113
$24.18 billion (2009 est.)

$22.96 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$14.55 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 152
5.3% (2009 est.)

11.3% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$37,900 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 28
$38,200 (2009 est.)

$37,200 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.2%

industry: 93.9%

services: 3.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


195,200 NA (2007)
country comparison to the world: 170


Unemployment rate:


30% (1998 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Investment (gross fixed):


29.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20


Public debt:


4.1% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 130
5.4% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


8.2% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 191
7.1% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


4.25% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 100
4.75% (31 December 2008)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA% (31 December 2009 est.)

NA% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$1.86 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 121
$1.295 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$2.207 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140
$1.473 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$1.534 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 136
$3.579 billion (31 December 2008)



Agriculture - products:


coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava (tapioca), bananas, palm oil
nuts; livestock; timber



Industries:


petroleum, fishing, sawmilling, natural gas



Industrial production growth rate:


1.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134


Electricity - production:


28 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Electricity - consumption:


26.04 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 203


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


346,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Oil - consumption:


1,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Oil - exports:


362,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


Oil - imports:


1,114 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Oil - proved reserves:


1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 40


Natural gas - production:


6.67 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 46


Natural gas - consumption:


1.5 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Natural gas - exports:


5.17 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 26


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85


Natural gas - proved reserves:


36.81 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67


Current account balance:


-$1.477 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 151
-$1.883 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$10.24 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 85
$8.495 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


petroleum, methanol, timber, cocoa



Exports - partners:


US 30.31%, China 12.54%, Japan 9.21%, Spain 7.5%, South Korea 7.01%,
Taiwan 5.63%, Italy 5.38%, Netherlands 4.09% (2009)



Imports:


$5.743 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
$5.258 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


petroleum sector equipment, other equipment



Imports - partners:


China 19.97%, US 17.28%, Spain 14.94%, France 9.49%, Cote d'Ivoire
6.34%, Italy 5.02% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$4.086 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 72
$3.252 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$832 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153
$766 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale francs per US dollar -
506.04 (2010), 472.19 (2009), 447.81 (2008), 481.83 (2007), 522.4
(2006)







Communications ::Equatorial Guinea




Telephones - main lines in use:


10,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 201


Telephones - mobile cellular:


445,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 161


Telephone system:


general assessment: digital fixed-line network in most major urban
areas and good mobile coverage

domestic: fixed-line density is about 2 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular subscribership has been increasing and in 2009 stood
at about 70 percent of the population

international: country code - 240; international communications from
Bata and Malabo to African and European countries; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


state maintains control of broadcast media with domestic broadcast
media limited to 1 state-owned TV station, 1 state-owned radio
station, and 1 private radio station owned by the president's eldest
son; satellite TV service is available; transmissions of multiple
international broadcasters are accessible (2007)



Internet country code:


.gq



Internet hosts:


9 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 221


Internet users:


14,400 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 199






Transportation ::Equatorial Guinea




Airports:


7 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 166


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 6

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2

1,524 to 2,437 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 38 km (2009)



Roadways:


total: 2,880 km (2000)
country comparison to the world: 167


Merchant marine:


total: 4
country comparison to the world: 131
by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 2

foreign-owned: 1 (Norway 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Bata, Luba, Malabo (2010)







Military ::Equatorial Guinea




Military branches:


National Guard (Guardia Nacional de Guinea Ecuatoria, GNGE (Army),
with Coast Guard (Navy) and Air Wing) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for selective compulsory military service; service
obligation 2 years; women hold only administrative positions in the
Coast Guard (2011)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 146,241

females age 16-49: 146,138 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 109,311

females age 16-49: 111,543 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 7,186

female: 6,920 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


0.1% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 173






Transnational Issues ::Equatorial Guinea




Disputes - international:


in 2002, ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement of
Cameroon-Equatorial Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of
Guinea, but a dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an
island at the mouth of the Ntem River and imprecisely defined
maritime coordinates in the ICJ decision delay final delimitation;
UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty
dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane and lesser islands and to create a
maritime boundary in the hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Equatorial Guinea is primarily a destination
country for children trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and
possibly for the purpose of sexual exploitation; children have been
trafficked from nearby countries for domestic servitude, market
labor, ambulant vending, and possibly sexual exploitation; women may
also be trafficked to Equatorial Guinea from Cameroon, Benin, other
neighboring countries, and China for sexual exploitation

tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Equatorial Guinea is on the Tier 2
Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
to eliminate trafficking, particularly in the areas of prosecuting
and convicting trafficking offenders and failing to formalize
mechanisms to provide assistance to victims; although the government
made some effort to enforce laws against child labor exploitation,
it failed to report any trafficking prosecutions or convictions in
2007; the government continued to lack shelters or formal procedures
for providing care to victims (2008)









page last updated on January 24, 2011

======================================================================




@Eritrea  (Africa)

Introduction ::Eritrea




Background:


The UN awarded Eritrea to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a federation.
Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years later
sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991 with
Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was
overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two-and-a-half-year
border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN
auspices in December 2000. Eritrea hosted a UN peacekeeping
operation that monitored a 25 km-wide Temporary Security Zone (TSZ)
on the border with Ethiopia. Eritrea's denial of fuel to the mission
caused the UN to withdraw the mission and terminate its mandate 31
July 2008. An international commission, organized to resolve the
border dispute, posted its findings in 2002. However, both parties
have been unable to reach agreement on implementing the decision. On
30 November 2007, the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission remotely
demarcated the border by coordinates and dissolved itself, leaving
Ethiopia still occupying several tracts of disputed territory,
including the town of Badme. Eritrea accepted the EEBC's "virtual
demarcation" decision and called on Ethiopia to remove its troops
from the TSZ that it states is Eritrean territory. Ethiopia has not
accepted the virtual demarcation decision. In 2009 the UN imposed
sanctions on Eritrea after accusing it of backing anti-Ethiopian
Islamist insurgents in Somalia.







Geography ::Eritrea




Location:


Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and Sudan



Geographic coordinates:


15 00 N, 39 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 117,600 sq km
country comparison to the world: 100
land: 101,000 sq km

water: 16,600 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly larger than Pennsylvania



Land boundaries:


total: 1,626 km

border countries: Djibouti 109 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km



Coastline:


2,234 km (mainland on Red Sea 1,151 km, islands in Red Sea 1,083 km)



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm



Climate:


hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and wetter in the
central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually, heaviest June
to September); semiarid in western hills and lowlands



Terrain:


dominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending highlands,
descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the northwest
to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling plains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: near Kulul within the Danakil Depression -75 m

highest point: Soira 3,018 m



Natural resources:


gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil and natural gas, fish



Land use:


arable land: 4.78%

permanent crops: 0.03%

other: 95.19% (2005)



Irrigated land:


210 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


6.3 cu km (2001)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 0.3 cu km/yr (3%/0%/97%)

per capita: 68 cu m/yr (2000)



Natural hazards:


frequent droughts; locust swarms

volcanism: Dubbi (elev. 1,625 m, 5,331 ft), which last erupted in
1861, is the country's only historically active volcano



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing; loss of
infrastructure from civil warfare



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


strategic geopolitical position along world's busiest shipping
lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of Ethiopia along the
Red Sea upon de jure independence from Ethiopia on 24 May 1993







People ::Eritrea




Population:


5,792,984 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 108


Age structure:


0-14 years: 42.8% (male 1,212,848/female 1,202,240)

15-64 years: 53.7% (male 1,483,169/female 1,547,078)

65 years and over: 3.6% (male 92,009/female 109,824) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 18.5 years

male: 18.2 years

female: 18.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


2.522% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 30


Birth rate:


33.48 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


Death rate:


8.25 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 73


Urbanization:


urban population: 21% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 5.4% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female

total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 42.33 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 65
male: 47.87 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 36.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 62.15 years
country comparison to the world: 180
male: 60.06 years

female: 64.3 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


4.6 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 35


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


38,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 66


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


2,600 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 56


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever

vectorborne disease: malaria (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Eritrean(s)

adjective: Eritrean



Ethnic groups:


nine recognized ethnic groups: Tigrinya 55%, Tigre 30%, Saho 4%,
Kunama 2%, Rashaida 2%, Bilen 2%, other (Afar, Beni Amir, Nera) 5%
(2010 est.)



Religions:


Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant



Languages:


Tigrinya (official), Arabic (official), English (official), Tigre,
Kunama, Afar, other Cushitic languages



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 58.6%

male: 69.9%

female: 47.6% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 6 years

male: 7 years

female: 5 years (2004)



Education expenditures:


2% of GDP (2006)
country comparison to the world: 168






Government ::Eritrea




Country name:


conventional long form: State of Eritrea

conventional short form: Eritrea

local long form: Hagere Ertra

local short form: Ertra

former: Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia



Government type:


transitional government

note: following a successful referendum on independence for the
Autonomous Region of Eritrea on 23-25 April 1993, a National
Assembly, composed entirely of the People's Front for Democracy and
Justice or PFDJ, was established as a transitional legislature; a
Constitutional Commission was also established to draft a
constitution; ISAIAS Afworki was elected president by the
transitional legislature; the constitution, ratified in May 1997,
did not enter into effect, pending parliamentary and presidential
elections; parliamentary elections were scheduled in December 2001
but were postponed indefinitely; currently the sole legal party is
the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ)



Capital:


name: Asmara (Asmera)

geographic coordinates: 15 20 N, 38 56 E

time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


6 regions (zobatat, singular - zoba); Anseba, Debub (South),
Debubawi K'eyih Bahri (Southern Red Sea), Gash Barka, Ma'akel
(Central), Semenawi Keyih Bahri (Northern Red Sea)



Independence:


24 May 1993 (from Ethiopia)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 24 May (1993)



Constitution:


adopted on 23 May 1997, but has not yet been fully implemented



Legal system:


primary basis is the Ethiopian legal code of 1957 with revisions;
new civil, commercial, and penal codes have not yet been
promulgated; government also issues unilateral proclamations setting
laws and policies; also relies on customary and
post-independence-enacted laws and, for civil cases involving
Muslims, Islamic law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government and
is head of the State Council and National Assembly

head of government: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993)

cabinet: State Council the collective executive authority; members
appointed by the president
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); the most recent and
only election held on 8 June 1993 (next election date uncertain as
the National Assembly did not hold a presidential election in
December 2001 as anticipated)

election results: ISAIAS Afworki elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - ISAIAS Afworki 95%, other 5%



Legislative branch:


unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; members elected by direct
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections: in May 1997, following the adoption of the new
constitution, 75 members of the PFDJ Central Committee (the old
Central Committee of the EPLF), 60 members of the 527-member
Constituent Assembly, which had been established in 1997 to discuss
and ratify the new constitution, and 15 representatives of Eritreans
living abroad were formed into a Transitional National Assembly to
serve as the country's legislative body until countrywide elections
to a National Assembly were held; although only 75 of 150 members of
the Transitional National Assembly were elected, the constitution
stipulates that once past the transition stage, all members of the
National Assembly will be elected by secret ballot of all eligible
voters; National Assembly elections scheduled for December 2001 were
postponed indefinitely



Judicial branch:


High Court - regional, subregional, and village courts; also have
military and special courts



Political parties and leaders:


People's Front for Democracy and Justice or PFDJ [ISAIAS Afworki]
(the only party recognized by the government); note - a National
Assembly committee drafted a law on political parties in January
2001, but the full National Assembly has yet to debate or vote on it



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Eritrean Democratic Party (EDP) [HAGOS, Mesfin]; Eritrean Islamic
Jihad or EIJ (includes Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement or EIJM also
known as the Abu Sihel Movement); Eritrean Islamic Salvation or EIS
(also known as the Arafa Movement); Eritrean Liberation Front or ELF
[ABDULLAH Muhammed]; Eritrean National Alliance or ENA (a coalition
including EIJ, EIS, ELF, and a number of ELF factions) [HERUY Tedla
Biru]; Eritrean Public Forum or EPF [ARADOM Iyob]



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS (observer), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber),
ITU, ITUC, LAS (observer), MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador GHIRMAI Ghebremariam

chancery: 1708 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone: [1] (202) 319-1991

FAX: [1] (202) 319-1304

consulate(s) general: Oakland (California)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Joel REIFMAN

embassy: 179 Ala Street, Asmara

mailing address: P. O. Box 211, Asmara

telephone: [291] (1) 120004

FAX: [291] (1) 127584



Flag description:


red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) dividing the flag
into two right triangles; the upper triangle is green, the lower one
is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive branch is centered on
the hoist side of the red triangle; green stands for the country's
agriculture economy, red signifies the blood shed in the fight for
freedom, and blue symbolizes the bounty of the sea; the wreath-olive
branch symbol is similar to that on the first flag of Eritrea from
1952; the shape of the red triangle broadly mimics the shape of the
country



National anthem:


name: "Ertra, Ertra, Ertra" (Eritrea, Eritrea, Eritrea)

lyrics/music: SOLOMON Tsehaye Beraki/Isaac Abraham MEHAREZGI and
ARON Tekle Tesfatsion

note: adopted 1993; upon independence from Ethiopia in 1993, Eritrea
adopted its own national anthem







Economy ::Eritrea




Economy - overview:


Since independence from Ethiopia in 1993, Eritrea has faced the
economic problems of a small, desperately poor country, accentuated
by the recent implementation of restrictive economic policies.
Eritrea has a command economy under the control of the sole
political party, the People's Front for Democracy and Justice
(PFDJ). Like the economies of many African nations, a large share of
the population - nearly 80% - is engaged in subsistence agriculture,
but they produce only a small share of total output. Since the
conclusion of the Ethiopian-Eritrea war in 2000, the government has
maintained a firm grip on the economy, expanding the use of the
military and party-owned businesses to complete Eritrea's
development agenda. The government strictly controls the use of
foreign currency by limiting access and availability. Few private
enterprises remain in Eritrea. Eritrea's economy depends heavily on
taxes paid by members of the diaspora. Erratic rainfall and the
delayed demobilization of agriculturalists from the military
continue to interfere with agricultural production, and Eritrea's
recent harvests have been unable to meet the food needs of the
country. The Government continues to place its hope for additional
revenue on the development of several international mining projects.
Despite difficulties for international companies in working with the
Eritrean Government, a Canadian mining company signed a contract
with the government in 2007 and began mineral extraction in 2010.
Eritrea's economic future depends upon its ability to master social
problems such as illiteracy, unemployment, and low skills, and more
importantly, on the government's willingness to support a true
market economy.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$4.178 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 167
$4.017 billion (2009 est.)

$3.877 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.254 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 80
3.6% (2009 est.)

2% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$700 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 223
$700 (2009 est.)

$700 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 11.8%

industry: 20.4%

services: 67.7% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


1.935 million NA (2007)
country comparison to the world: 120


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 80%

industry and services: 20% (2004 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


50% (2004 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Investment (gross fixed):


10.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


20% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 221
20% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


NA%



Stock of narrow money:


$1.382 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 128
$1.007 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$2.872 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134
$2.171 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$2.919 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 120
$2.206 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Agriculture - products:


sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton, tobacco, sisal;
livestock, goats; fish



Industries:


food processing, beverages, clothing and textiles, light
manufacturing, salt, cement



Industrial production growth rate:


8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 32


Electricity - production:


271 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 172


Electricity - consumption:


228 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178


Oil - consumption:


5,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 170


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Oil - imports:


4,790 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 200


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 188


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 84


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 183


Current account balance:


-$212 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 91
-$188 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$25 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 204
$20 million (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


livestock, sorghum, textiles, food, small manufactures



Exports - partners:


India 25.3%, Italy 20.7%, Sudan 14.1%, China 12.9%, France 5.5%,
Saudi Arabia 5.4% (2008)



Imports:


$738 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182
$682 million (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery, petroleum products, food, manufactured goods



Imports - partners:


Saudi Arabia 20.7%, India 13.6%, Italy 12.6%, China 9.9%, US 5.1%,
Germany 4.6% (2008)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$104 million (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 129
$88 million (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$NA (31 December 2010 est.)

$961.9 million (31 December 2008 est.)



Exchange rates:


nakfa (ERN) per US dollar - 15.375 (2010), 15.375 (2009), 15.38
(2008), 15.5 (2007), 15.4 (2006)







Communications ::Eritrea




Telephones - main lines in use:


48,500 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 163


Telephones - mobile cellular:


141,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 177


Telephone system:


general assessment: inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara;
government is seeking international tenders to improve the system
(2002)

domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership is
only about 3 per 100 persons (2009)

international: country code - 291; note - international connections
exist



Broadcast media:


government controls broadcast media with private ownership
prohibited; 1 state-owned TV station; state-owned radio operates 2
networks; purchases of satellite dishes and subscriptions to
international broadcast media are permitted (2007)



Internet country code:


.er



Internet hosts:


1,241 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 166


Internet users:


200,000 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 140






Transportation ::Eritrea




Airports:


13 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 152


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 4

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 9

over 3,047 m: 1

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 5

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Railways:


total: 306 km
country comparison to the world: 120
narrow gauge: 306 km 0.950-m gauge (2008)



Roadways:


total: 4,010 km
country comparison to the world: 157
paved: 874 km

unpaved: 3,136 km (2000)



Merchant marine:


total: 4
country comparison to the world: 132
by type: cargo 2, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Assab, Massawa







Military ::Eritrea




Military branches:


Eritrean Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


18-40 years of age for male and female voluntary and compulsory
military service; 16-month conscript service obligation (2006)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 1,307,012

females age 16-49: 1,319,682 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 864,608

females age 16-49: 920,104 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 64,489

female: 64,476 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


6.3% of GDP (2006 est.)
country comparison to the world: 8






Transnational Issues ::Eritrea




Disputes - international:


Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by 2002 Ethiopia-Eritrea
Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision but, neither
party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006
EEBC Demarcation Statement; Sudan accuses Eritrea of supporting
eastern Sudanese rebel groups; in 2008 Eritrean troops move across
the border on Ras Doumera peninsula and occupy Doumera Island with
undefined sovereignty in the Red Sea



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


IDPs: 32,000 (border war with Ethiopia from 1998-2000; most IDPs are
near the central border region) (2007)



Trafficking in persons:


current situation: Eritrea is a source country for men, women, and
children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial
sexual exploitation; each year, large numbers of migrant workers
depart Eritrea in search of work, particularly in the Gulf States,
where some likely become victims of forced labor, including in
domestic servitude, or commercial sexual exploitation; thousands of
Eritreans flee the country illegally, mostly to Sudan, Ethiopia, and
Kenya where their illegal status makes them vulnerable to situations
of human trafficking; the government remains complicit in
conscripting children into military service

tier rating: Tier 3 - the Government of Eritrea does not fully
comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking
and is not making significant efforts to do so; the Eritrean
government does not operate with transparency and published neither
data nor statistics regarding its efforts to combat human
trafficking; it did not respond to requests to provide information
for this report; the government made no known progress in
prosecuting and punishing trafficking crimes over the reporting
period and did not appear to provide any significant assistance to
victims of trafficking during the reporting period (2009)









page last updated on January 12, 2011

======================================================================




@Estonia  (Europe)

Introduction ::Estonia




Background:


After centuries of Danish, Swedish, German, and Russian rule,
Estonia attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated into
the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US - it
regained its freedom in 1991 with the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia has been free to
promote economic and political ties with Western Europe. It joined
both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.







Geography ::Estonia




Location:


Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of Finland,
between Latvia and Russia



Geographic coordinates:


59 00 N, 26 00 E



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 45,228 sq km
country comparison to the world: 132
land: 42,388 sq km

water: 2,840 sq km

note: includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont combined



Land boundaries:


total: 633 km

border countries: Latvia 343 km, Russia 290 km



Coastline:


3,794 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive economic zone: limits fixed in coordination with
neighboring states



Climate:


maritime; wet, moderate winters, cool summers



Terrain:


marshy, lowlands; flat in the north, hilly in the south



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point: Suur Munamagi 318 m



Natural resources:


oil shale, peat, rare earth elements, phosphorite, clay, limestone,
sand, dolomite, arable land, sea mud



Land use:


arable land: 12.05%

permanent crops: 0.35%

other: 87.6% (2005)



Irrigated land:


40 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


21.1 cu km (2005)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 1.41 cu km/yr (56%/39%/5%)

per capita: 1,060 cu m/yr (2002)



Natural hazards:


sometimes flooding occurs in the spring



Environment - current issues:


air polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale burning power plants
in northeast; however, the amount of pollutants emitted to the air
have fallen steadily, the emissions of 2000 were 80% less than in
1980; the amount of unpurified wastewater discharged to water bodies
in 2000 was one-20th the level of 1980; in connection with the
start-up of new water purification plants, the pollution load of
wastewater decreased; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural and
manmade lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas need to be
monitored; coastal seawater is polluted in certain locations



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements



Geography - note:


the mainland terrain is flat, boggy, and partly wooded; offshore lie
more than 1,500 islands







People ::Estonia




Population:


1,291,170 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 154


Age structure:


0-14 years: 14.9% (male 99,748/female 94,051)

15-64 years: 67.5% (male 417,816/female 459,246)

65 years and over: 17.6% (male 75,486/female 153,024) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 40.2 years

male: 36.7 years

female: 43.7 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


-0.635% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 227


Birth rate:


10.42 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 185


Death rate:


13.48 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 22


Net migration rate:


-3.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Urbanization:


urban population: 69% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: -0.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.063 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.49 male(s)/female

total population: 0.84 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 7.19 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 167
male: 8.34 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 5.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 73.08 years
country comparison to the world: 117
male: 67.74 years

female: 78.76 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.43 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


1.3% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 48


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


9,900 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


fewer than 500 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 99


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: intermediate

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea

vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Estonian(s)

adjective: Estonian



Ethnic groups:


Estonian 68.7%, Russian 25.6%, Ukrainian 2.1%, Belarusian 1.2%, Finn
0.8%, other 1.6% (2008 census)



Religions:


Evangelical Lutheran 13.6%, Orthodox 12.8%, other Christian
(including Methodist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic,
Pentecostal) 1.4%, unaffiliated 34.1%, other and unspecified 32%,
none 6.1% (2000 census)



Languages:


Estonian (official) 67.3%, Russian 29.7%, other 2.3%, unknown 0.7%
(2000 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 99.8%

male: 99.8%

female: 99.8% (2000 census)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 16 years

male: 15 years

female: 17 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


5% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 68






Government ::Estonia




Country name:


conventional long form: Republic of Estonia

conventional short form: Estonia

local long form: Eesti Vabariik

local short form: Eesti

former: Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic



Government type:


parliamentary republic



Capital:


name: Tallinn

geographic coordinates: 59 26 N, 24 43 E

time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


15 counties (maakonnad, singular - maakond); Harjumaa (Tallinn),
Hiiumaa (Kardla), Ida-Virumaa (Johvi), Jarvamaa (Paide), Jogevamaa
(Jogeva), Laanemaa (Haapsalu), Laane-Virumaa (Rakvere), Parnumaa
(Parnu), Polvamaa (Polva), Raplamaa (Rapla), Saaremaa (Kuressaare),
Tartumaa (Tartu), Valgamaa (Valga), Viljandimaa (Viljandi), Vorumaa
(Voru)

note: counties have the administrative center name following in
parentheses



Independence:


20 August 1991 (from the Soviet Union)



National holiday:


Independence Day, 24 February (1918); note - 24 February 1918 was
the date Estonia declared its independence from Soviet Russia; 20
August 1991 was the date it declared its independence from the
Soviet Union



Constitution:


adopted 28 June 1992



Legal system:


based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens



Executive branch:


chief of state: President Toomas Hendrik ILVES (since 9 October 2006)

head of government: Prime Minister Andrus ANSIP (since 12 April 2005)

cabinet: Ministers appointed by the prime minister, approved by
Parliament
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); if a candidate does not secure
two-thirds of the votes after three rounds of balloting in the
Parliament, then an electoral assembly (made up of Parliament plus
members of local councils) elects the president, choosing between
the two candidates with the largest number of votes; election last
held on 23 September 2006 (next to be held in the fall of 2011);
prime minister nominated by the president and approved by Parliament

election results: Toomas Hendrik ILVES elected president on 23
September 2006 by a 345-member electoral assembly; ILVES received
174 votes to incumbent Arnold RUUTEL's 162; remaining 9 ballots left
blank or invalid



Legislative branch:


unicameral Parliament or Riigikogu (101 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 4 March 2007 (next to be held in March 2011)

election results: percent of vote by party - Estonian Reform Party
27.8%, Center Party of Estonia 26.1%, Union of Pro Patria and Res
Publica 17.9%, Social Democratic Party 10.6%, Estonian Greens 7.1%,
Estonian People's Union 7.1%, other 5%; seats by party - Estonian
Reform Party 31, Center Party 28, Union of Pro Patria and Res
Publica 19, Social Democratic Party 10, Estonian Greens 6, Estonian
People's Union 6, independent 1



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (chairman appointed for life by Parliament)



Political parties and leaders:


Center Party of Estonia (Keskerakond) [Edgar SAVISAAR]; Estonian
Greens (Rohelised) [Marek STRANDBERG]; Estonian People's Union
(Rahvaliit) [Juhan AARE]; Estonian Reform Party (Reformierakond)
[Andrus ANSIP]; Social Democratic Party [Sven MIKSER]; Union of Pro
Patria and Res Publica (Isamaa je Res Publica Liit) [Mart LAAR]



International organization participation:


Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA
(cooperating state), EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE,
PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNTSO, UPU,
WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Vaino REINART

chancery: 2131 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 588-0101

FAX: [1] (202) 588-0108

consulate(s) general: New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Michael C. POLT

embassy: Kentmanni 20, 15099 Tallinn

mailing address: use embassy street address

telephone: [372] 668-8100

FAX: [372] 668-8265



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white;
various interpretations are linked to the flag colors; blue
represents faith, loyalty, and devotion, while also reminiscent of
the sky, sea, and lakes of the country; black symbolizes the soil of
the country and the dark past and suffering endured by the Estonian
people; white refers to the striving towards enlightenment and
virtue, and is the color of birch bark and snow, as well as summer
nights illuminated by the midnight sun



National anthem:


name: "Mu isamaa, mu onn ja room" (My Native Land, My Pride and Joy)

lyrics/music: Johann Voldemar JANNSEN/Fredrik PACIUS

note: adopted 1920, though banned between 1940 and 1990 under Soviet
occupation; the anthem, used in Estonia since 1869, shares the same
melody with that of Finland but has different lyrics







Economy ::Estonia




Economy - overview:


Estonia, a 2004 European Union entrant, has a modern market-based
economy and one of the higher per capita income levels in Central
Europe and the Baltic region. Estonia's successive governments have
pursued a free market, pro-business economic agenda and have wavered
little in their commitment to pro-market reforms. The current
government has pursued relatively sound fiscal policies that have
resulted in balanced budgets and very low public debt. The economy
benefits from strong electronics and telecommunications sectors and
strong trade ties with Finland, Sweden, and Germany. Tallinn's
priority has been to sustain high growth rates - on average 8% per
year from 2003 to 2007. Estonia's economy slowed down markedly and
fell sharply into recession in mid-2008, primarily as a result of an
investment and consumption slump following the bursting of the real
estate market bubble. GDP dropped nearly 15% in 2009, among the
world's highest rates of contraction. A modest recovery began in
2010, but unemployment stands above 13%. Estonia adopted the euro in
January 2011.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$24.53 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 114
$24.07 billion (2009 est.)

$27.96 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$19.22 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.9% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 153
-13.9% (2009 est.)

-5.1% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$19,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 63
$18,500 (2009 est.)

$21,400 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 2.5%

industry: 28.7%

services: 68.8% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


688,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 150


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 2.8%

industry: 22.7%

services: 74.5% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


13.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 140
13.8% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


19.5% (2007)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.7%

highest 10%: 27.7% (2004)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


34 (2008)
country comparison to the world: 91
37 (1999)



Investment (gross fixed):


22.5% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 61


Public debt:


7.7% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 125
7.1% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


2.4% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
-0.1% (2009 est.)



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


9.39% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 112
8.55% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$5.345 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 85
$5.822 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$10.7 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98
$11.37 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$18.94 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 79
$20.32 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$2.654 billion (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 94
$1.95 billion (31 December 2008)

$6.037 billion (31 December 2007)



Agriculture - products:


potatoes, vegetables; livestock and dairy products; fish



Industries:


engineering, electronics, wood and wood products, textiles;
information technology, telecommunications



Industrial production growth rate:


10% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 15


Electricity - production:


11.46 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 88


Electricity - consumption:


7.686 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Electricity - exports:


2.31 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


1.369 billion kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


7,600 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Oil - consumption:


30,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113


Oil - exports:


7,280 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


Oil - imports:


30,590 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 199


Natural gas - consumption:


1.51 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 83


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 60


Natural gas - imports:


1.51 billion cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 50


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Current account balance:


$265 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54
$898.7 million (2009 est.)



Exports:


$10.77 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82
$9.08 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


machinery and equipment 29%, wood and paper 13%, metals 10%, food
products 8%, textiles 5%, chemical products



Exports - partners:


Finland 18.57%, Sweden 12.52%, Latvia 9.51%, Russia 9.33%, Germany
6.09%, Lithuania 4.76%, US 4.26% (2009)



Imports:


$11.52 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 86
$9.783 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


machinery and equipment 35%, textiles 19%, mineral fuels 19%,
chemical products 9%, foodstuffs 6%



Imports - partners:


Finland 14.52%, Lithuania 10.84%, Latvia 10.47%, Germany 10.33%,
Russia 8.59%, Sweden 8.34%, Poland 5.63% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$3.641 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 82
$3.981 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$25.13 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 67
$25.56 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$17.53 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 71
$16.23 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:


$7.134 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 54
$6.534 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


kroon (EEK) per US dollar - 12.11 (2010), 11.232 (2009), 10.7
(2008), 11.535 (2007), 12.473 (2006)

note: Estonia adopted the euro on 1 January 2011







Communications ::Estonia




Telephones - main lines in use:


492,800 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 98


Telephones - mobile cellular:


2.72 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 117


Telephone system:


general assessment: foreign investment in the form of joint business
ventures greatly improved telephone service with a wide range of
high quality voice, data, and Internet services available

domestic: substantial fiber-optic cable systems carry telephone, TV,
and radio traffic in the digital mode; Internet services are widely
available; schools and libraries are connected to the Internet, a
large percentage of the population files income-tax returns online,
and online voting was used for the first time in the 2005 local
elections

international: country code - 372; fiber-optic cables to Finland,
Sweden, Latvia, and Russia provide worldwide packet-switched
service; 2 international switches are located in Tallinn (2008)



Broadcast media:


the publicly-owned broadcaster, Eesti Rahvusringhaaling (ERR),
operates 2 television channels; national private TV channels
expanding service; a range of channels are aimed at Russian-speaking
viewers; high penetration rate for cable TV services with more than
half of Estonian households connected; publicly-owned broadcaster,
ERR, operates 4 radio networks and there are a growing number of
private commercial radio stations broadcasting nationally,
regionally, and locally (2008)



Internet country code:


.ee



Internet hosts:


729,534 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 48


Internet users:


971,700 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 102






Transportation ::Estonia




Airports:


19 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 136


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 13

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 7

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 6

1,524 to 2,437 m: 2

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 3 (2010)



Heliports:


1 (2010)



Pipelines:


gas 859 km (2009)



Railways:


total: 1,196 km
country comparison to the world: 86
broad gauge: 1,196 km 1.520 m/1.524-m gauge (131 km electrified)
(2008)



Roadways:


total: 58,034 km
country comparison to the world: 78
paved: 34,936 km (includes 104 km of expressways)

unpaved: 23,098 km (2009)



Waterways:


520 km (320 km are navigable year round) (2010)
country comparison to the world: 84


Merchant marine:


total: 24
country comparison to the world: 94
by type: cargo 4, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo 17, petroleum
tanker 2

foreign-owned: 3 (Germany 1, Norway 2)

registered in other countries: 77 (Antigua and Barbuda 20, Belize 1,
Cambodia 1, Cyprus 7, Dominica 6, Finland 2, Latvia 4, Malta 16,
former Netherlands Antilles 1, Norway 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 10, Sierra Leone 1, Sweden 3,
Venezuela 1) (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Kuivastu, Kunda, Muuga, Parnu Reid, Sillamae, Tallinn







Military ::Estonia




Military branches:


Estonian Defense Forces: Land Force, Navy, Air Force (Eesti
Ohuvagi), Volunteer Defense League (Kaitseliit, KL) (2010)



Military service age and obligation:


obligation for compulsory service ages 16-60, with conscription
"likely" ages 18-27; service requirement 8-11 months (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 297,096

females age 16-49: 308,229 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 213,740

females age 16-49: 255,926 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 6,945

female: 6,564 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


2% of GDP (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 73






Transnational Issues ::Estonia




Disputes - international:


Russia recalled its signature to the 1996 technical border agreement
with Estonia in 2005, rather than concede to Estonia's appending
prepared a unilateral declaration referencing Soviet occupation and
territorial losses; Russia demands better accommodation of
Russian-speaking population in Estonia; Estonian citizen groups
continue to press for realignment of the boundary based on the 1920
Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now divided ethnic Setu
people and parts of the Narva region within Estonia; as a member
state that forms part of the EU's external border, Estonia must
implement the strict Schengen border rules with Russia



Illicit drugs:


growing producer of synthetic drugs; increasingly important
transshipment zone for cannabis, cocaine, opiates, and synthetic
drugs since joining the European Union and the Schengen Accord;
potential money laundering related to organized crime and drug
trafficking is a concern, as is possible use of the gambling sector
to launder funds; major use of opiates and ecstasy









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Ethiopia  (Africa)

Introduction ::Ethiopia




Background:


Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian monarchy
maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the exception of a
short-lived Italian occupation from 1936-41. In 1974, a military
junta, the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE (who had ruled since
1930) and established a socialist state. Torn by bloody coups,
uprisings, wide-scale drought, and massive refugee problems, the
regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of rebel forces,
the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). A
constitution was adopted in 1994, and Ethiopia's first multiparty
elections were held in 1995. A border war with Eritrea late in the
1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000. In November 2007,
the Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission remotely demarcated the
border by geographical coordinates, but final demarcation of the
boundary on the ground is currently on hold because of Ethiopian
objections to an international commission's finding requiring it to
surrender territory considered sensitive to Ethiopia.







Geography ::Ethiopia




Location:


Eastern Africa, west of Somalia



Geographic coordinates:


8 00 N, 38 00 E



Map references:


Africa



Area:


total: 1,104,300 sq km
country comparison to the world: 27
land: 1 million sq km

water: 104,300 sq km



Area - comparative:


slightly less than twice the size of Texas



Land boundaries:


total: 5,328 km

border countries: Djibouti 349 km, Eritrea 912 km, Kenya 861 km,
Somalia 1,600 km, Sudan 1,606 km



Coastline:


0 km (landlocked)



Maritime claims:


none (landlocked)



Climate:


tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation



Terrain:


high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great Rift Valley



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Danakil Depression -125 m

highest point: Ras Dejen 4,533 m



Natural resources:


small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash, natural gas,
hydropower



Land use:


arable land: 10.01%

permanent crops: 0.65%

other: 89.34% (2005)



Irrigated land:


2,900 sq km (2003)



Total renewable water resources:


110 cu km (1987)



Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):


total: 5.56 cu km/yr (6%/0%/94%)

per capita: 72 cu m/yr (2002)



Natural hazards:


geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible to earthquakes,
volcanic eruptions; frequent droughts

volcanism: Ethiopia experiences volcanic activity in the Great Rift
Valley; Erta Ale (elev. 613 m, 2,011 ft), which has caused frequent
lava flows in recent years, is the country's most active volcano;
Dabbahu became active in 2005, causing evacuations; other
historically active volcanoes include Alayta, Dalaffilla, Dallol,
Dama Ali, Fentale, Kone, Manda Hararo, and Manda-Inakir



Environment - current issues:


deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; water
shortages in some areas from water-intensive farming and poor
management



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea



Geography - note:


landlocked - entire coastline along the Red Sea was lost with the de
jure independence of Eritrea on 24 May 1993; the Blue Nile, the
chief headstream of the Nile by water volume, rises in T'ana Hayk
(Lake Tana) in northwest Ethiopia; three major crops are believed to
have originated in Ethiopia: coffee, grain sorghum, and castor bean







People ::Ethiopia




Population:


88,013,491
country comparison to the world: 14
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 46.1% (male 19,596,784/female 19,688,887)

15-64 years: 51.2% (male 21,376,495/female 22,304,812)

65 years and over: 2.7% (male 975,923/female 1,294,437) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 16.8 years

male: 16.5 years

female: 17.2 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


3.202% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Birth rate:


43.34 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 6


Death rate:


11.29 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 38


Net migration rate:


-0.02 migrant(s)/1,000 population
country comparison to the world: 119
note: repatriation of Ethiopian refugees residing in Sudan is
expected to continue for several years; some Sudanese, Somali, and
Eritrean refugees, who fled to Ethiopia from the fighting or famine
in their own countries, continue to return to their homes (2010 est.)



Urbanization:


urban population: 17% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 4.3% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female

total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 78.99 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 16
male: 90.08 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 67.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 55.8 years
country comparison to the world: 196
male: 53.28 years

female: 58.39 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


6.07 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 8


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


2.1% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 31


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


980,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 12


HIV/AIDS - deaths:


67,000 (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 11


Major infectious diseases:


degree of risk: high

food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever

vectorborne diseases: malaria

respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis

animal contact disease: rabies

water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2009)



Nationality:


noun: Ethiopian(s)

adjective: Ethiopian



Ethnic groups:


Oromo 34.5%, Amara 26.9%, Somalie 6.2%, Tigraway 6.1%, Sidama 4%,
Guragie 2.5%, Welaita 2.3%, Hadiya 1.7%, Affar 1.7%, Gamo 1.5%,
Gedeo 1.3%, other 11.3% (2007 Census)



Religions:


Orthodox 43.5%, Muslim 33.9%, Protestant 18.6%, traditional 2.6%,
Catholic 0.7%, other 0.7% (2007 Census)



Languages:


Amarigna (Amharic) (official) 32.7%, Oromigna (official regional)
31.6%, Tigrigna (official regional) 6.1%, Somaligna 6%, Guaragigna
3.5%, Sidamigna 3.5%, Hadiyigna 1.7%, other 14.8%, English
(official) (major foreign language taught in schools), Arabic
(official) (1994 census)



Literacy:


definition: age 15 and over can read and write

total population: 42.7%

male: 50.3%

female: 35.1% (2003 est.)



School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):


total: 8 years

male: 9 years

female: 8 years (2008)



Education expenditures:


5.5% of GDP (2007)
country comparison to the world: 44






Government ::Ethiopia




Country name:


conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia

conventional short form: Ethiopia

local long form: Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik

local short form: Ityop'iya

former: Abyssinia, Italian East Africa

abbreviation: FDRE



Government type:


federal republic



Capital:


name: Addis Ababa

geographic coordinates: 9 02 N, 38 42 E

time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)



Administrative divisions:


9 ethnically based states (kililoch, singular - kilil) and 2
self-governing administrations* (astedaderoch, singular -
astedader); Adis Abeba* (Addis Ababa), Afar, Amara (Amhara),
Binshangul Gumuz, Dire Dawa*, Gambela Hizboch (Gambela Peoples),
Hareri Hizb (Harari People), Oromiya (Oromia), Sumale (Somali),
Tigray, Ye Debub Biheroch Bihereseboch na Hizboch (Southern Nations,
Nationalities and Peoples)



Independence:


oldest independent country in Africa and one of the oldest in the
world - at least 2,000 years (may be traced to the Aksumite Kingdom,
which coalesced in the first centuries B.C.)



National holiday:


National Day (defeat of MENGISTU regime), 28 May (1991)



Constitution:


ratified 8 December 1994, effective 22 August 1995



Legal system:


based on civil law; currently transitional mix of national and
regional courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: President GIRMA Woldegiorgis (since 8 October 2001)

head of government: Prime Minister MELES Zenawi (since August 1995)

cabinet: Council of Ministers as provided for in the December 1994
constitution; ministers selected by the prime minister and approved
by the House of People's Representatives
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: president elected by the House of People's
Representatives for a six-year term (eligible for a second term);
election last held on 9 October 2007 (next to be held in October
2013); prime minister designated by the party in power following
legislative elections

election results: GIRMA Woldegiorgis elected president; percent of
vote by the House of People's Representatives - 79%



Legislative branch:


bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Federation (or upper
chamber responsible for interpreting the constitution and
federal-regional issues) (108 seats; members chosen by state
assemblies to serve five-year terms) and the House of People's
Representatives (or lower chamber responsible for passing
legislation) (547 seats; members directly elected by popular vote
from single-member districts to serve five-year terms)

elections: last held on 23 May 2010 (next to be held in 2015)

election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party - EPRDF 499,
SPDP 24, BGPDP 9, ANDP 8, GPUDM 3, HNL 1, FORUM 1, APDO 1,
independent 1



Judicial branch:


Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice president of the
Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime minister and
appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for other
federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of People's
Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the Federal
Judicial Administrative Council)



Political parties and leaders:


Afar National Democratic Party or ANDP [Mohammed KEDIR]; Arena
Tigray; Argoba People's Democratic Organization or APDO; Benishangul
Gumuz People's Democratic Party or BGPDP [Mulualem BESSE]; Coalition
for Unity and Democratic Party or CUDP; Ethiopian Federal Democatic
Forum or FORUM (a UDJ-led 8-party alliance established for the 2010
parliamentary elections); Ethiopian People's Revolutionary
Democratic Front or EPRDF; Gambella Peoples Unity Democratic
Movement or GPUDM [Umod UBONG]; Gurage Nationalities' Democratic
Movement or GNDM; Harari National League or HNL [Murad ABDULHADI];
Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement or OFDM [BULCHA Demeksa]; Oromo
People's Congress or OPC [IMERERA Gudina]; Somali Democratic
Alliance Forces or SODAF; Somali People's Democratic Party or SPDP;
United Ethiopian Democratic Forces or UEDF [BEYENE Petros]; Unity
for Democracy and Justice or UDJ [Birtukan MEDEKSA, currently
imprisoned]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Ethiopian People's Patriotic Front or EPPF; Ogaden National
Liberation Front or ONLF; Oromo Liberation Front or OLF [DAOUD Ibsa]



International organization participation:


ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Tesfaye
YILMA Sabo

chancery: 3506 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone: [1] (202) 364-1200

FAX: [1] (202) 587-0195

consulate(s) general: Los Angeles

consulate(s): New York



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Donald E. BOOTH

embassy: Entoto Street, Addis Ababa

mailing address: P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa

telephone: [251] 11-517-40-00

FAX: [251] 11-517-40-01



Flag description:


three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and red, with a
yellow pentagram and single yellow rays emanating from the angles
between the points on a light blue disk centered on the three bands;
green represents hope and the fertility of the land, yellow
symbolizes justice and harmony, while red stands for sacrifice and
heroism in the defense of the land; the blue of the disk symbolizes
peace and the pentagram represents the unity and equality of the
nationalities and peoples of Ethiopia

note: Ethiopia is the oldest independent country in Africa, and the
three main colors of her flag (adopted ca. 1895) were so often
adopted by other African countries upon independence that they
became known as the Pan-African colors; the emblem in the center of
the current flag was added in 1996



National anthem:


name: "Whedefit Gesgeshi Woude Henate Ethiopia" (March Forward, Dear
Mother Ethiopia)

lyrics/music: DEREJE Melaku Mengesha/SOLOMON Lulu

note: adopted 1992







Economy ::Ethiopia




Economy - overview:


Ethiopia's poverty-stricken economy is based on agriculture,
accounting for almost 45% of GDP, and 85% of total employment. The
agricultural sector suffers from frequent drought and poor
cultivation practices. Coffee is critical to the Ethiopian economy
with exports of some $350 million in 2006, but historically low
prices have seen many farmers switching to qat to supplement income.
Under Ethiopia's constitution, the state owns all land and provides
long-term leases to the tenants; the system continues to hamper
growth in the industrial sector as entrepreneurs are unable to use
land as collateral for loans. In November 2001, Ethiopia qualified
for debt relief from the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
initiative, and in December 2005 the IMF forgave Ethiopia's debt.
The global economic downturn led to balance of payments pressures,
partially alleviated by recent emergency funding from the IMF. While
GDP growth has remained high, per capita inome is among the lowest
in the world.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$84.02 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 77
$78.52 billion (2009 est.)

$72.24 billion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$30.94 billion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 20
8.7% (2009 est.)

11.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$1,000 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 214
$900 (2009 est.)

$900 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 42.9%

industry: 13.7%

services: 43.4% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


37.9 million (2007)
country comparison to the world: 17


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 85%

industry: 5%

services: 10% (2009 est.)



Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


38.7% (FY05/06 est.)



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 4.1%

highest 10%: 25.6% (2005)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


30 (2000)
country comparison to the world: 112
40 (1995)



Investment (gross fixed):


25.2% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 41


Public debt:


39.3% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 75
35.4% of GDP (2009 est.)



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 178
8.5% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


NA%



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


8% (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 129
7% (31 December 2006)



Stock of narrow money:


$4.764 billion (31 December 2010 est)
country comparison to the world: 91
$4.972 billion (31 December 2009 est)



Stock of broad money:


$8.248 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 107
$8.641 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Stock of domestic credit:


$8.661 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97
$9.292 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA



Agriculture - products:


cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, cotton, sugarcane, potatoes, qat,
cut flowers; hides, cattle, sheep, goats; fish



Industries:


food processing, beverages, textiles, leather, chemicals, metals
processing, cement



Industrial production growth rate:


9.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Electricity - production:


3.46 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 121


Electricity - consumption:


3.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 126


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 177


Oil - consumption:


38,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Oil - imports:


33,590 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 96


Oil - proved reserves:


430,000 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 98


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 59


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 182


Natural gas - proved reserves:


24.92 billion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 74


Current account balance:


-$2.232 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158
-$1.996 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$1.729 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 134
$1.636 billion (2009 est.)



Exports - commodities:


coffee, qat, gold, leather products, live animals, oilseeds



Exports - partners:


China 10.87%, Germany 9.75%, Saudi Arabia 7.39%, US 7.21%,
Netherlands 6.38%, Switzerland 5.33%, Sudan 4.35%, Belgium 4% (2009)



Imports:


$7.517 billion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101
$6.946 billion (2009 est.)



Imports - commodities:


food and live animals, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
machinery, motor vehicles, cereals, textiles



Imports - partners:


China 14.73%, Saudi Arabia 8.41%, India 7.65%, US 4.3% (2009)



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$1.88 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 101
$1.781 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Debt - external:


$4.289 billion (31 December 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 113
$3.621 billion (31 December 2009 est.)



Exchange rates:


birr (ETB) per US dollar - 14.4 (2010), 11.7776 (2009), 9.57 (2008),
8.96 (2007), 8.69 (2006)







Communications ::Ethiopia




Telephones - main lines in use:


915,100 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 82


Telephones - mobile cellular:


4.052 million (2009)
country comparison to the world: 103


Telephone system:


general assessment: inadequate telephone system with the Ethiopian
Telecommunications Corporation (ETC) maintaining a monopoly over
telecommunication services; open-wire, microwave radio relay; radio
communication in the HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies; 2 domestic
satellites provide the national trunk service

domestic: the number of fixed lines and mobile telephones is
increasing from a small base; combined fixed and mobile-cellular
teledensity is only about 5 per 100 persons

international: country code - 251; open-wire to Sudan and Djibouti;
microwave radio relay to Kenya and Djibouti; satellite earth
stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean) (2009)



Broadcast media:


1 public TV broadcast station broadcasting nationally and 1 public
radio broadcaster with stations in each of the 13 administrative
districts; a few commercial radio stations and roughly a dozen
community radio stations (2009)



Internet country code:


.et



Internet hosts:


151 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 200


Internet users:


447,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 119






Transportation ::Ethiopia




Airports:


61 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 79


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 17

over 3,047 m: 3

2,438 to 3,047 m: 8

1,524 to 2,437 m: 4

914 to 1,523 m: 1

under 914 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 44

2,438 to 3,047 m: 3

1,524 to 2,437 m: 12

914 to 1,523 m: 22

under 914 m: 7 (2010)



Railways:


total: 681 km (Ethiopian segment of the 781 km Addis Ababa-Djibouti
railroad)
country comparison to the world: 106
narrow gauge: 681 km 1.000-m gauge

note: railway is under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but is
largely inoperable (2008)



Roadways:


total: 36,469 km
country comparison to the world: 94
paved: 6,980 km

unpaved: 29,489 km (2004)



Merchant marine:


total: 9
country comparison to the world: 118
by type: cargo 8, roll on/roll off 1 (2010)



Ports and terminals:


Ethiopia is landlocked and uses ports of Djibouti in Djibouti and
Berbera in Somalia







Military ::Ethiopia




Military branches:


Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF): Ground Forces, Ethiopian
Air Force (ETAF) (2010)

note: Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the
secession of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in
Eritrean possession



Military service age and obligation:


18 years of age for voluntary military service; no compulsory
military service, but the military can conduct call-ups when
necessary and compliance is compulsory (2009)



Manpower available for military service:


males age 16-49: 18,485,269

females age 16-49: 19,145,307 (2010 est.)



Manpower fit for military service:


males age 16-49: 11,466,713

females age 16-49: 12,444,706 (2010 est.)



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:


male: 934,523

female: 947,103 (2010 est.)



Military expenditures:


1.2% of GDP (2009)
country comparison to the world: 124






Transnational Issues ::Ethiopia




Disputes - international:


Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by the 2002 Eritrea-Ethiopia
Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision, but neither
party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006
EEBC Demarcation Statement; the undemarcated former British
administrative line has little meaning as a political separation to
rival clans within Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo
region; Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed
Islamist Courts from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland"
secessionists provide port facilities in Berbera and trade ties to
landlocked Ethiopia; civil unrest in eastern Sudan has hampered
efforts to demarcate the porous boundary with Ethiopia



Refugees and internally displaced persons:


refugees (country of origin): 66,980 (Sudan); 16,576 (Somalia);
13,078 (Eritrea)

IDPs: 200,000 (border war with Eritrea from 1998-2000, ethnic
clashes in Gambela, and ongoing Ethiopian military counterinsurgency
in Somali region; most IDPs are in Tigray and Gambela Provinces)
(2007)



Illicit drugs:


transit hub for heroin originating in Southwest and Southeast Asia
and destined for Europe, as well as cocaine destined for markets in
southern Africa; cultivates qat (khat) for local use and regional
export, principally to Djibouti and Somalia (legal in all three
countries); the lack of a well-developed financial system limits the
country's utility as a money laundering center









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@European Union  (Europe)

Introduction ::European Union




Preliminary statement:


The evolution of the European Union (EU) from a regional economic
agreement among six neighboring states in 1951 to today's
supranational organization of 27 countries across the European
continent stands as an unprecedented phenomenon in the annals of
history. Dynastic unions for territorial consolidation were long the
norm in Europe. On a few occasions even country-level unions were
arranged - the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and the
Austro-Hungarian Empire were examples - but for such a large number
of nation-states to cede some of their sovereignty to an overarching
entity is truly unique.

Although the EU is not a federation in the strict sense, it is far
more than a free-trade association such as ASEAN, NAFTA, or
Mercosur, and it has many of the attributes associated with
independent nations: its own flag, anthem, founding date, and
currency, as well as an incipient common foreign and security policy
in its dealings with other nations.

In the future, many of these nation-like characteristics are likely
to be expanded. Thus, inclusion of basic intelligence on the EU has
been deemed appropriate as a new, separate entity in The World
Factbook. However, because of the EU's special status, this
description is placed after the regular country entries.



Background:


Following the two devastating World Wars in the first half of the
20th century, a number of European leaders in the late 1940s became
convinced that the only way to establish a lasting peace was to
unite the two chief belligerent nations - France and Germany - both
economically and politically. In 1950, the French Foreign Minister
Robert SCHUMAN proposed an eventual union of all Europe, the first
step of which would be the integration of the coal and steel
industries of Western Europe. The following year the European Coal
and Steel Community (ECSC) was set up when six members, Belgium,
France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, signed
the Treaty of Paris.

The ECSC was so successful that within a few years the decision was
made to integrate other parts of the countries' economies. In 1957,
the Treaties of Rome created the European Economic Community (EEC)
and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), and the six
member states undertook to eliminate trade barriers among themselves
by forming a common market. In 1967, the institutions of all three
communities were formally merged into the European Community (EC),
creating a single Commission, a single Council of Ministers, and the
European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament were
initially selected by national parliaments, but in 1979 the first
direct elections were undertaken and they have been held every five
years since.

In 1973, the first enlargement of the EC took place with the
addition of Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. The 1980s saw
further membership expansion with Greece joining in 1981 and Spain
and Portugal in 1986. The 1992 Treaty of Maastricht laid the basis
for further forms of cooperation in foreign and defense policy, in
judicial and internal affairs, and in the creation of an economic
and monetary union - including a common currency. This further
integration created the European Union (EU). In 1995, Austria,
Finland, and Sweden joined the EU, raising the membership total to
15.

A new currency, the euro, was launched in world money markets on 1
January 1999; it became the unit of exchange for all of the EU
states except the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark. In 2002,
citizens of the 12 euro-area countries (the European Monetary Union
or EMU) began using the euro banknotes and coins. Ten new countries
joined the EU in 2004 - Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia -
and in 2007 Bulgaria and Romania joined, bringing the current
membership to 27. In order to ensure that the EU can continue to
function efficiently with an expanded membership, the Treaty of Nice
(in force as of 1 February 2003) set forth rules streamlining the
size and procedures of EU institutions. An effort to establish an EU
constitution, begun in October 2004, failed to attain unanimous
ratification. A new effort, undertaken in June 2007, created an
Intergovernmental Conference to formulate a political agreement -
initially known as the Reform Treaty but subsequently referred to as
the Treaty of Lisbon - which would serve as a constitution. Unlike
the constitution, however, the Treaty of Lisbon sought to amend
existing treaties rather than replace them. In October 2009, an
Irish referendum approved the Treaty (overturning a previous
rejection) and cleared the way for an ultimate unanimous endorsement
- the Czech Republic signed on soon after. Treaty implementation
began on 1 December 2009. In 2010, the prospect of a Greek default
on its euro-denominated debt created severe strains within the EMU
and raised the question of whether a member country might be removed.







Geography ::European Union




Location:


Europe between the North Atlantic Ocean in the west and Russia,
Belarus, and Ukraine to the east



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 4,324,782 sq km



Area - comparative:


less than one-half the size of the US



Land boundaries:


total: 12,440.8 km

border countries: Albania 282 km, Andorra 120.3 km, Belarus 1,050
km, Croatia 999 km, Holy See 3.2 km, Liechtenstein 34.9 km,
Macedonia 394 km, Moldova 450 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Norway 2,348 km,
Russia 2,257 km, San Marino 39 km, Serbia 945 km, Switzerland 1,811
km, Turkey 446 km, Ukraine 1,257 km

note: data for European Continent only



Coastline:


65,992.9 km



Maritime claims:


NA



Climate:


cold temperate; potentially subarctic in the north to temperate;
mild wet winters; hot dry summers in the south



Terrain:


fairly flat along the Baltic and Atlantic coast; mountainous in the
central and southern areas



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Lammefjord, Denmark -7 m; Zuidplaspolder, Netherlands
-7 m

highest point: Mont Blanc 4,807 m; note - situated on the border
between France and Italy



Natural resources:


iron ore, natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, lead, zinc, bauxite,
uranium, potash, salt, hydropower, arable land, timber, fish



Land use:


arable land: NA

permanent crops: NA

other: NA



Irrigated land:


168,050 sq km (2003 est.)



Natural hazards:


flooding along coasts; avalanches in mountainous area; earthquakes
in the south; volcanic eruptions in Italy; periodic droughts in
Spain; ice floes in the Baltic



Environment - current issues:


NA



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94

signed but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds







People ::European Union




Population:


492,387,344 (July 2010 est.)



Age structure:


0-14 years: 15.44% (male 38,992,677/female 36,940,450)

15-64 years: 67.23% (male 166,412,403/female 164,295,636)

65 years and over: 17.33% (male 35,376,333/female 49,853,361) (2009
est.)



Median age:


note - see individual country entries of member states (2009 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.098 % (2010 est.)



Birth rate:


9.83 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)



Death rate:


10.33 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)



Net migration rate:


1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female

total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2009 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 5.61 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 181
male: 6.26 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 4.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 78.82 years
country comparison to the world: 41
male: 75.7 years

female: 82.13 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


1.51 children born/woman (2010 est.)



HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


note - see individual country entries of member states



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


note - see individual country entries of member states



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


note - see individual country entries of member states



Religions:


Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox, Muslim, Jewish



Languages:


Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French,
Gaelic, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian,
Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish,
Swedish

note: only official languages are listed; German, the major language
of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, is the most widely spoken
mother tongue - over 19% of the EU population; English is the most
widely spoken language - about 49% of the EU population is
conversant with it (2007)







Government ::European Union




Union name:


conventional long form: European Union

abbreviation: EU



Political structure:


a hybrid intergovernmental and supranational organization



Capital:


name: Brussels (Belgium), Strasbourg (France), Luxembourg

geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E

time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October

note: the Council of the European Union meets in Brussels, Belgium;
the European Parliament meets in Brussels and Strasbourg, France;
the Court of Justice of the European Communities meets in Luxembourg



Member states:


27 countries: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, UK;
note - candidate countries: Croatia, Iceland, Macedonia, Montenegro,
Turkey



Independence:


7 February 1992 (Maastricht Treaty signed establishing the EU); 1
November 1993 (Maastricht Treaty entered into force)



National holiday:


Europe Day 9 May (1950); note - a Union-wide holiday, the day that
Robert SCHUMAN proposed the creation of the European Coal and Steel
Community to achieve an organized Europe



Constitution:


none

note: based on a series of treaties: the Treaty of Paris, which set
up the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in 1951; the
Treaties of Rome, which set up the European Economic Community (EEC)
and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) in 1957; the
Single European Act in 1986; the Treaty on European Union
(Maastricht) in 1992; the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997; and the
Treaty of Nice in 2003; note - a new draft Constitutional Treaty,
signed on 29 October 2004 in Rome, gave member states two years for
ratification either by parliamentary vote or national referendum
before it was scheduled to take effect on 1 November 2006; defeat in
French and Dutch referenda in May-June 2005 dealt a severe setback
to the ratification process; in June 2007, the European Council
agreed on a clear and concise mandate for an Intergovernmental
Conference to form a political agreement and put it into legal form;
this agreement, known as the Reform Treaty, would have served as a
constitution and was presented to the European Council in October
2007 for individual country ratification; it was rejected by Irish
voters in June 2008, again stalling the ratification process; the
Reform Treaty, more recently known as the Treaty of Lisbon, was
again circulated for ratification, and by November 2009 was approved
by all 27 countries; it came into effect on 1 December 2009



Legal system:


comparable to the legal systems of member states; first
supranational law system



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of union: President of the European Commission Jose Manuel
BARROSO (since 2004)

cabinet: European Commission (composed of 27 members, one from each
member country; each commissioner responsible for one or more policy
areas)
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the president of the European Commission designated by
member governments and confirmed by the European Parliament; working
from member state recommendations, the Commission president then
assembles a "college" of Commission members; the European Parliament
confirms the entire Commission for a five-year term; the next
confirmation process will likely be held in January 2015

note: the European Council brings together heads of state and
government and the president of the European Commission and meets at
least four times a year; its aim is to provide the impetus for the
major political issues relating to European integration and to issue
general policy guidelines; leaders of the EU member states appointed
then Belgian Prime Minister Herman VAN ROMPUY to be the first
full-time president of the European Council in November 2009; he
took office on 1 December 2009 and will serve a
two-and-one-half-year term, renewable once; his core
responsibilities include chairing the four summits each year and
providing continuity beyond the rotating, six-month presidencies of
the Council of the EU



Legislative branch:


two legislative bodies consisting of the Council of the European
Union (27 member-state ministers having 345 votes; the number of
votes is roughly proportional to member-states' population) and the
European Parliament (736 seats; seats allocated among member states
in proportion to population; members elected by direct universal
suffrage for a five-year term); note - the Council is the main
decision-making body of the EU; leaders of the EU member states
appointed UK Baroness Catherine Ashton to be the first High
Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy;
Ashton took office on 1 December 2009; her concurrent appointment as
Vice President of the European Commission - both of which are
subject to confirmation by the European Parliament - endows her
position with the policymaking influence of the Council of the EU
and the budgetary influence of the European Commission

elections: last held on 4-7 June 2009 (next to be held in June 2014)

election results: percent of vote - EPP 36%, S&D 25%, ALDE 11.4%,
Greens/EFA 7.5%, ECR 7.3%, GUE/NGL 4.8%, EFD 4.3%, independents
3.7%; seats by party - EPP 265, S&D 184, ALDE 84, Greens/EFA 55, ECR
54, GUE/NGL 35, EFD 32, independents 27



Judicial branch:


Court of Justice of the European Communities (ensures that the
treaties are interpreted and applied uniformly throughout the EU;
resolve constitutional issues among the EU institutions) - 27
justices (one from each member state) appointed for a six-year term;
note - for the sake of efficiency, the court can sit with 13
justices known as the "Grand Chamber"; Court of First Instance - 27
justices appointed for a six-year term



Political parties and leaders:


Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left or
GUE/NGL [Lothar BISKY]; Europe of Freedom and Democracy Group or EFD
[Nigel FARAGE and Francesco SPERONI]; European Conservatives and
Reformists Group or ECR [Michael KAMINSKI]; Group of Greens/European
Free Alliance or Greens/EFA [Rebecca HARMS and Daniel COHN-BENDIT];
Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe or ALDE
[Guy VERHOFSTADT]; Group of the European People's Party or EPP
[Joseph DAUL]; Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and
Democrats in the European Parliament or S&D [Martin SCHULZ]



International organization participation:


European Union: ARF (dialogue member), ASEAN (dialogue member), FAO,
G-8, G-20, IDA, OAS (observer), PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), UN
(observer), WTO

European Commission: Australian Group, CBSS, CERN, EBRD, FATF, G-10,
IEA, LAIA WTO, ZC (observer)

European Central Bank: BIS

European Investment Bank: EBRD



Diplomatic representation in the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador Joao P. Castanheira do VALE DE ALMEIDA

chancery: 2300 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone: [1] (202) 862-9500

FAX: [1] (202) 429-1766



Diplomatic representation from the US:


chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Christopher
MURRAY

embassy: 13 Zinnerstraat/Rue Zinner, B-1000 Brussels

mailing address: same as above

telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111

FAX: [32] (2) 508-2063



Flag description:


a blue field with 12 five-pointed gold stars arranged in a circle in
the center; blue represents the sky of the Western world, the stars
are the peoples of Europe in a circle, a symbol of unity; the number
of stars is fixed



National anthem:


name: "Ode to Joy""

lyrics/music: none/Ludwig VON BEETHOVEN, arranged by Herbert VON
KARAJAN

note: adopted 1972, not in use until 1986; according to the European
Union, the song is meant to represent all of Europe rather than just
the organization; the song also serves as the anthem for the Council
of Europe







Economy ::European Union




Economy - overview:


Internally, the EU has abolished trade barriers, adopted a common
currency, and is striving toward convergence of living standards.
Internationally, the EU aims to bolster Europe's trade position and
its political and economic power. Because of the great differences
in per capita income among member states (from $7,000 to $78,000)
and in national attitudes toward issues like inflation, debt, and
foreign trade, the EU faces difficulties in devising and enforcing
common policies. In the wake of the global economic crisis, the
European Commission projected that the EU's economy would shrink by
4% in 2009 and 0.1% in 2010. The EU has recovered from the crisis
faster than expected, however, and the Commission estimates 2010
growth at 1.8%. Significant risks to growth nevertheless remain,
including, high official debts and deficits, aging populations,
over-regulation of non-financial businesses, and doubts about the
sustainability of European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). In
June 2010, prompted by the Greek financial crisis, the EU and the
IMF set up a $1 trillion bailout fund to rescue any EMU member in
danger of default, but it has not calmed market jitters that have
diminished the value of the euro. Eleven established EU member
states introduced the euro as their common currency on 1 January
1999 (Greece did so two years later), but the UK and Denmark have
'opt-outs' that allow them to keep their national currencies, and
Sweden has not taken the steps needed to participate. Between 2004
and 2007, the EU admitted 12 countries that are, in general, less
advanced economically than the other 15. Of the 12 most recent
member states, only Slovenia (1 January 2007), Cyprus and Malta (1
January 2008), Slovakia (1 January 2009), and Estonia (1 January
2011) have adopted the euro; the remaining states other than the UK
and Denmark are legally required to adopt the currency upon meeting
EU's fiscal and monetary convergence criteria.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$14.89 trillion (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 1
$14.64 trillion (2009 est.)

$15.27 trillion (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP (official exchange rate):


$15.9 trillion (2010 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


1.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 160
-4% (2009 est.)

0.6% (2008 est.)



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$32,900 (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 42
$32,400 (2009 est.)

$33,900 (2008 est.)

note: data are in 2010 US dollars



GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 1.8%

industry: 25.2%

services: 72.9% (2010 est.)



Labor force:


225.2 million (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 5.6%

industry: 27.7%

services: 66.7% (2007 est.)



Unemployment rate:


9.5% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 104
9% (2009 est.)



Population below poverty line:


note - see individual country entries of member states



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: 2.9%

highest 10%: 25.6% (2002 est.)



Distribution of family income - Gini index:


31 (2005 est.)
country comparison to the world: 106
31.2 (1996 est.)



Investment (gross fixed):


18.6% of GDP (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 103


Inflation rate (consumer prices):


1.7% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 47
1.8% (2009 est.)



Central bank discount rate:


1.75% (31 December 2009)
country comparison to the world: 121
3% (31 December 2008)

note: this is the European Central Bank's rate on the marginal
lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks in the euro
area



Commercial bank prime lending rate:


7.52% (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 110
8.58% (31 December 2008 est.)



Stock of narrow money:


$5.542 trillion (31 December 2008)
country comparison to the world: 2
$5.649 trillion (31 December 2007)

note: this is the quantity of money, M1, for the euro area,
converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
indicated; it excludes the stock of money carried by non-euro-area
members of the European Union



Stock of broad money:


$11.17 trillion (31 December 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4
$10.83 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)

note: this is the quantity of quasi money, M2-M1, for the euro area,
converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
indicated; it excludes the stock of quasi money carried by
non-euro-area members of the European Union



Stock of domestic credit:


$22.65 trillion (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2
$21.24 trillion (31 December 2008 est.)

note: this figure refers to the euro area only; it excludes credit
data for non-euro-area members of the EU



Market value of publicly traded shares:


$NA (31 December 2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2
$7.564 trillion (31 December 2008)

$15.57 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)



Agriculture - products:


wheat, barley, oilseeds, sugar beets, wine, grapes; dairy products,
cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry; fish



Industries:


among the world's largest and most technologically advanced, the EU
industrial base includes: ferrous and non-ferrous metal production
and processing, metal products, petroleum, coal, cement, chemicals,
pharmaceuticals, aerospace, rail transportation equipment, passenger
and commercial vehicles, construction equipment, industrial
equipment, shipbuilding, electrical power equipment, machine tools
and automated manufacturing systems, electronics and
telecommunications equipment, fishing, food and beverage processing,
furniture, paper, textiles, tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


3.8% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 90


Electricity - production:


3.08 trillion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Electricity - consumption:


2.906 trillion kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 3


Electricity - exports:


NA kWh



Electricity - imports:


NA kWh



Oil - production:


2.383 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 13


Oil - consumption:


13.68 million bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Oil - exports:


2.196 million bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 7


Oil - imports:


8.613 million bbl/day (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Oil - proved reserves:


5.414 billion bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 25


Natural gas - production:


181.6 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 4


Natural gas - consumption:


489.4 billion cu m (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 2


Natural gas - exports:


NA cu m



Natural gas - imports:


NA cu m



Natural gas - proved reserves:


2.242 trillion cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 18


Current account balance:


$NA (2009)

$51.4 billion (2009 est.)



Exports:


$1.952 trillion (2007)
country comparison to the world: 1
$1.33 trillion (2005)

note: external exports, excluding intra-EU trade



Exports - commodities:


machinery, motor vehicles, aircraft, plastics, pharmaceuticals and
other chemicals, fuels, iron and steel, nonferrous metals, wood pulp
and paper products, textiles, meat, dairy products, fish, alcoholic
beverages.



Imports:


$1.69 trillion (2007)
country comparison to the world: 2
$1.466 trillion (2005)

note: external imports, excluding intra-EU trade



Imports - commodities:


machinery, vehicles, aircraft, plastics, crude oil, chemicals,
textiles, metals, foodstuffs, clothing



Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:


$NA



Debt - external:



country comparison to the world: 2
$13.72 trillion (30 June 2010); This is the external debt for the
euro area only; it excludes the external debt of the non-euro-area
members of the EU



Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:


$NA



Exchange rates:


euros per US dollar - 0.7715 (2010), 0.7338 (2009), 0.6827 (2008),
0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006)







Communications ::European Union




Telephones - main lines in use:


238 million (2005)



Telephones - mobile cellular:


466 million (2005)



Telephone system:


note - see individual country entries of member states



Internet country code:


.eu; note - see country entries of member states for individual
country codes



Internet hosts:


140,277; note - this sum reflects the number of internet hosts
assigned the .eu internet country code (2010)



Internet users:


247 million (2006)







Transportation ::European Union




Airports:


3,383 (2010)



Airports - with paved runways:


total: 1,992

over 3,047 m: 116

2,438 to 3,047 m: 340

1,524 to 2,437 m: 546

914 to 1,523 m: 422

under 914 m: 568 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 1,391

over 3,047 m: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

1,524 to 2,437 m: 22

914 to 1,523 m: 254

under 914 m: 1,112 (2010)



Heliports:


99 (2010)



Railways:


total: 229,450 km (2008)



Roadways:


total: 5,919,704 km (2008)



Waterways:


52,332 km (2006)



Ports and terminals:


Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Braila (Romania), Bremen
(Germany), Burgas (Bulgaria), Constanta (Romania), Copenhagen
(Denmark), Galati (Romania), Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany),
Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre
(France), Lisbon (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille (France), Naples
(Italy), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Riga (Latvia), Rotterdam
(Netherlands), Stockholm (Sweden), Talinn (Estonia), Tulcea
(Romania), Varna (Bulgaria)







Military ::European Union




Military - note:


the five-nation Eurocorps - created in 1992 by France, Germany,
Belgium, Spain, and Luxembourg - has deployed troops and police on
peacekeeping missions to Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and assumed command of the ISAF in
Afghanistan in August 2004; Eurocorps directly commands the
5,000-man Franco-German Brigade, the Multinational Command Support
Brigade, and EUFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in November 2004, the
EU Council of Ministers formally committed to creating 13 1,500-man
battle groups by the end of 2007, to respond to international crises
on a rotating basis; 22 of the EU's 27 nations have agreed to supply
troops; France, Italy, and the UK formed the first of three battle
groups in 2005; Norway, Sweden, Estonia, and Finland established the
Nordic Battle Group effective 1 January 2008; nine other groups are
to be formed; a rapid-reaction naval EU Maritime Task Group was
stood up in March 2007 (2007)







Transnational Issues ::European Union




Disputes - international:


as a political union, the EU has no border disputes with neighboring
countries, but Estonia has no land boundary agreements with Russia,
Slovenia disputes its land and maritime boundaries with Croatia, and
Spain has territorial and maritime disputes with Morocco and with
the UK over Gibraltar; the EU has set up a Schengen area -
consisting of 22 EU member states that have signed the convention
implementing the Schengen agreements or "acquis" (1985 and 1990) on
the free movement of persons and the harmonization of border
controls in Europe; these agreements became incorporated into EU law
with the implementation of the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May
1999; in addition, non-EU states Iceland and Norway (as part of the
Nordic Union) have been included in the Schengen area since 1996
(full members in 2001), and Switzerland since 2008 bringing the
total current membership to 25; the UK (since 2000) and Ireland
(since 2002) take part in only some aspects of the Schengen area,
especially with respect to police and criminal matters; nine of the
12 new member states that joined the EU since 2004 joined Schengen
on 21 December 2007; of the three remaining EU states, Cyprus is
expected to join by 2009, while Romania and Bulgaria continue to
enhance their border security systems









page last updated on January 20, 2011

======================================================================




@Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)  (South America)

Introduction ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Background:


Although first sighted by an English navigator in 1592, the first
landing (English) did not occur until almost a century later in
1690, and the first settlement (French) was not established until
1764. The colony was turned over to Spain two years later and the
islands have since been the subject of a territorial dispute, first
between Britain and Spain, then between Britain and Argentina. The
UK asserted its claim to the islands by establishing a naval
garrison there in 1833. Argentina invaded the islands on 2 April
1982. The British responded with an expeditionary force that landed
seven weeks later and after fierce fighting forced an Argentine
surrender on 14 June 1982.







Geography ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Location:


Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of
southern Argentina



Geographic coordinates:


51 45 S, 59 00 W



Map references:


South America



Area:


total: 12,173 sq km
country comparison to the world: 164
land: 12,173 sq km

water: 0 sq km

note: includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
about 200 small islands



Area - comparative:


slightly smaller than Connecticut



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


1,288 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 12 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm



Climate:


cold marine; strong westerly winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on
more than half of days in year; average annual rainfall is 24 inches
in Stanley; occasional snow all year, except in January and
February, but typically does not accumulate



Terrain:


rocky, hilly, mountainous with some boggy, undulating plains



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Mount Usborne 705 m



Natural resources:


fish, squid, wildlife, calcified seaweed, sphagnum moss



Land use:


arable land: 0%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 100% (99% permanent pastures, 1% other) (2005)



Irrigated land:


NA



Natural hazards:


strong winds persist throughout the year



Environment - current issues:


overfishing by unlicensed vessels is a problem; reindeer were
introduced to the islands in 2001 for commercial reasons; this is
the only commercial reindeer herd in the world unaffected by the
1986 Chornobyl disaster



Geography - note:


deeply indented coast provides good natural harbors; short growing
season







People ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Population:


3,140 (July 2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 230


Age structure:


0-14 years: NA

15-64 years: NA

65 years and over: NA



Population growth rate:


0.011% (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 193


Birth rate:


NA



Death rate:


NA



Net migration rate:


NA



Urbanization:


urban population: 92% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 1.2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: NA

male: NA

female: NA



Total fertility rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Falkland Islander(s)

adjective: Falkland Island



Ethnic groups:


British



Religions:


Christian 67.2%, none 31.5%, other 1.3% (2006 census)



Languages:


English



Literacy:


NA







Government ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Dependency status:


overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: Stanley

geographic coordinates: 51 42 S, 57 51 W

time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends
third Sunday in April



Administrative divisions:


none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)



Independence:


none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)



National holiday:


Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)



Constitution:


1 January 2009



Legal system:


English common law



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

head of government: Governor Nigel HAYWOOD (since 16 October 2010)
is the Queen's representative; Chief Executive Dr. Tim THOROGOOD
(since 3 January 2008)

cabinet: Executive Council; three members elected by the Legislative
Council, two ex officio members (chief executive and the financial
secretary), and the governor; the governor must obey the rulings of
the Executive Council on domestic affairs
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch



Legislative branch:


unicameral Legislative Assembly (10 seats; 2 members are ex officio
and 8 are elected by popular vote; members to serve four-year
terms); presided over by the governor

elections: last held on 5 November 2009 (next to be held in November
2013)

election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 8



Judicial branch:


Supreme Court (chief justice is a nonresident); Magistrates Court
(senior magistrate presides over civil and criminal divisions);
Court of Summary Jurisdiction



Political parties and leaders:


none; all independents



Political pressure groups and leaders:


Falkland Islands Association (supports freedom of the people from
external causes)



International organization participation:


UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)



Flag description:


blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Falkland Island coat of arms centered on the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms contains a white ram (sheep raising was once
the major economic activity) above the sailing ship Desire (whose
crew discovered the islands) with a scroll at the bottom bearing the
motto DESIRE THE RIGHT



National anthem:


name: "Song of the Falklands""

lyrics/music: Christopher LANHAM

note: adopted 1930s; the song is the local unofficial anthem; as a
territory of the United Kingdom, "God Save the Queen" is official
(see United Kingdom)







Economy ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Economy - overview:


The economy was formerly based on agriculture, mainly sheep farming,
but today fishing contributes the bulk of economic activity. In
1987, the government began selling fishing licenses to foreign
trawlers operating within the Falkland Islands' exclusive fishing
zone. These license fees total more than $40 million per year, which
help support the island's health, education, and welfare system.
Squid accounts for 75% of the fish taken. Dairy farming supports
domestic consumption; crops furnish winter fodder. Foreign exchange
earnings come from shipments of high-grade wool to the UK and the
sale of postage stamps and coins. The islands are now self-financing
except for defense. The British Geological Survey announced a
200-mile oil exploration zone around the islands in 1993, and early
seismic surveys suggest substantial reserves capable of producing
500,000 barrels per day; to date, no exploitable site has been
identified. An agreement between Argentina and the UK in 1995 seeks
to defuse licensing and sovereignty conflicts that would dampen
foreign interest in exploiting potential oil reserves. Political
tensions between the UK and Argentina rose in early 2010 after a UK
company began oil drilling activities in the waters around the
Falkland Islands but abated somewhat when the drilling operation
failed to discover commercially exploitable oil reserves. Tourism,
especially eco-tourism, is increasing rapidly, with about 30,000
visitors in 2001. Another large source of income is interest paid on
money the government has in the bank. The British military presence
also provides a sizeable economic boost.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$105.1 million (2002 est.)
country comparison to the world: 220


GDP (official exchange rate):


$105.1 million (2002 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


NA%



GDP - per capita (PPP):


$35,400 (2002 est.)
country comparison to the world: 33


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 95%

industry: NA%

services: NA% (1996)



Labor force:


1,724 (1996) (1996)
country comparison to the world: 224


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 95% (mostly sheepherding and fishing)

industry and services: 5% (1996)



Unemployment rate:


NA%



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


3.6% (1998)
country comparison to the world: 105


Agriculture - products:


fodder and vegetable crops; sheep, dairy products; fish, squid



Industries:


fish and wool processing; tourism



Industrial production growth rate:


NA%



Electricity - production:


16 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 207


Electricity - consumption:


14.88 million kWh (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 208


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008 est.)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 176


Oil - consumption:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 205


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 196


Oil - imports:


271 bbl/day (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 198


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 197


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


Natural gas - exports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Natural gas - imports:


0 cu m (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Natural gas - proved reserves:


0 cu m (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 181


Exports:


$125 million (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 187


Exports - commodities:


wool, hides, meat, fish, squid



Imports:


$90 million (2004 est.)
country comparison to the world: 210


Imports - commodities:


fuel, food and drink, building materials, clothing



Debt - external:


$NA



Exchange rates:


Falkland pounds (FKP) per US dollar - 0.5302 (2008), 0.4993 (2007),
0.5418 (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004)

note: the Falkland pound is at par with the British pound







Communications ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Telephones - main lines in use:


2,000 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 223


Telephones - mobile cellular:


3,300 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 212


Telephone system:


general assessment: NA

domestic: government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB
radiotelephone networks provide effective service to almost all
points on both islands

international: country code - 500; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) with links through London to other
countries



Broadcast media:


television service provided by a multi-channel service provider;
radio services provided by the public broadcaster Falkland Islands
Radio Service (FIRS), broadcasting on both AM and FM frequencies,
and by the British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) (2007)



Internet country code:


.fk



Internet hosts:


91 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 203


Internet users:


2,900 (2009)
country comparison to the world: 208






Transportation ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Airports:


7 (2010)
country comparison to the world: 167


Airports - with paved runways:


total: 2

2,438 to 3,047 m: 1

914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2010)



Airports - with unpaved runways:


total: 5

under 914 m: 5 (2010)



Roadways:


total: 440 km
country comparison to the world: 197
paved: 50 km

unpaved: 390 km (2008)



Ports and terminals:


Stanley







Military ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Military branches:


no regular military forces



Military expenditures:


NA



Military - note:


defense is the responsibility of the UK







Transnational Issues ::Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)




Disputes - international:


Argentina, which claims the islands in its constitution and briefly
occupied them by force in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek
settlement by force; UK continues to reject Argentine requests for
sovereignty talks









page last updated on January 10, 2011

======================================================================




@Faroe Islands  (Europe)

Introduction ::Faroe Islands




Background:


The population of the Faroe Islands is largely descended from Viking
settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The islands have been
connected politically to Denmark since the 14th century. A high
degree of self government was granted the Faroese in 1948, who have
autonomy over most internal affairs while Denmark is responsible for
justice, defense, and foreign affairs. The Faroe Islands are not
part of the European Union.







Geography ::Faroe Islands




Location:


Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian Sea and the
North Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Iceland and Norway



Geographic coordinates:


62 00 N, 7 00 W



Map references:


Europe



Area:


total: 1,393 sq km
country comparison to the world: 182
land: 1,393 sq km

water: 0 sq km (some lakes and streams)



Area - comparative:


eight times the size of Washington, DC



Land boundaries:


0 km



Coastline:


1,117 km



Maritime claims:


territorial sea: 3 nm

continental shelf: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line



Climate:


mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy, windy



Terrain:


rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of coast



Elevation extremes:


lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point: Slaettaratindur 882 m



Natural resources:


fish, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas



Land use:


arable land: 2.14%

permanent crops: 0%

other: 97.86% (2005)



Irrigated land:


0 sq km



Natural hazards:


NA



Environment - current issues:


NA



Environment - international agreements:


party to: Marine Dumping - associate member to the London Convention
and Ship Pollution



Geography - note:


archipelago of 17 inhabited islands and one uninhabited island, and
a few uninhabited islets; strategically located along important sea
lanes in northeastern Atlantic; precipitous terrain limits
habitation to small coastal lowlands







People ::Faroe Islands




Population:


49,057 (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 208


Age structure:


0-14 years: 21.6% (male 5,451/female 5,108)

15-64 years: 64% (male 16,708/female 14,544)

65 years and over: 14.4% (male 3,324/female 3,721) (2010 est.)



Median age:


total: 37.1 years

male: 36.5 years

female: 37.9 years (2010 est.)



Population growth rate:


0.424% (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 158


Birth rate:


12.9 births/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 156


Death rate:


8.66 deaths/1,000 population (July 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 81


Net migration rate:


0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 87


Urbanization:


urban population: 41% of total population (2008)

rate of urbanization: 2% annual rate of change (2005-10 est.)



Sex ratio:


at birth: 1.069 male(s)/female

under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years: 1.15 male(s)/female

65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female

total population: 1.09 male(s)/female (2010 est.)



Infant mortality rate:


total: 6.18 deaths/1,000 live births
country comparison to the world: 176
male: 6.43 deaths/1,000 live births

female: 5.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2010 est.)



Life expectancy at birth:


total population: 79.58 years
country comparison to the world: 33
male: 77.13 years

female: 82.21 years (2010 est.)



Total fertility rate:


2.43 children born/woman (2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 97


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:


NA



HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:


NA



HIV/AIDS - deaths:


NA



Nationality:


noun: Faroese (singular and plural)

adjective: Faroese



Ethnic groups:


Scandinavian



Religions:


Evangelical Lutheran 83.8%, other and unspecified 16.2% (2006 census)



Languages:


Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish



Literacy:


NA; note - probably 99%, the same as Denmark proper







Government ::Faroe Islands




Country name:


conventional long form: none

conventional short form: Faroe Islands

local long form: none

local short form: Foroyar



Dependency status:


part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark since 1948



Government type:


NA



Capital:


name: Torshavn

geographic coordinates: 62 01 N, 6 46 W

time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)

daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October



Administrative divisions:


none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 34 municipalities



Independence:


none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)



National holiday:


Olaifest (Olavsoka ), 29 July



Constitution:


5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)



Legal system:


the laws of Denmark where applicable apply



Suffrage:


18 years of age; universal



Executive branch:


chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since 14 January
1972), represented by High Commissioner Dan Michael KNUDSEN, chief
administrative officer (since 2008)

head of government: Prime Minister Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN (since 26
September 2008)

cabinet: Landsstyri appointed by the prime minister
(For more information visit the World Leaders website )
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
by the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
elected prime minister by the Faroese Parliament; election last held
on 19 January 2008 (next to be held no later than January 2012)

election results: Joannes EIDESGAARD elected prime minister in 2008;
governing coalition collapses in September 2008, Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN
becomes prime minister



Legislative branch:


unicameral Faroese Parliament or Logting (33 seats; members elected
by popular vote on a proportional basis from the seven
constituencies to serve four-year terms)

elections: last held on 19 January 2008 (next to be held no later
than January 2012)

election results: percent of vote by party - Union Party 21%, Social
Democratic Party 19.3%, Republican Party 23.3%, People's Party
20.1%, Center Party 8.4%, Independence Party 7.2%, other 0.7%; seats
by party - Republican Party 8, Union Party 7, Social Democratic
Party 6, People's Party 7, Center Party 3, Independence Party 2

note: election of two seats to the Danish Parliament was last held
on 13 November 2007 (next to be held no later than November 2011);
results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Republican
Party 1, Union Party 1



Judicial branch:


none



Political parties and leaders:


Center Party [Jenis av RANA]; Independence Party [Kari P. HOJGAARD];
People's Party [Jorgen NICLASEN]; Republican Party [Hogni HOYDAL];
Social Democratic Party [Joannes EIDESGAARD]; Union Party [Kaj Leo
JOHANNESEN]



Political pressure groups and leaders:


conservationists



International organization participation:


Arctic Council, IMO (associate), NC, NIB, UNESCO (associate), UPU



Diplomatic representation in the US:


none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)



Diplomatic representation from the US:


none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)



Flag description:


white with a red cross outlined in blue extending to the edges of
the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted toward the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag); referred to as
Merkid, meaning "the banner" or "the mark," the flag resembles those
of neighboring Iceland and Norway, and uses the same three colors -
but in a different sequence; white represents the clear Faroese sky
as well as the foam of the waves; red and blue are traditional
Faroese colors



National anthem:


name: "Mitt alfagra land" (My Fairest Land)

lyrics/music: Simun av SKAROI/Peter ALBERG

note: adopted 1948; the anthem is also known as "Tu alfagra land
mitt" (Thou Fairest Land of Mine); as an autonomous overseas
division of Denmark, the Faroe Islands are permitted their own
national anthem







Economy ::Faroe Islands




Economy - overview:


The Faroese economy is dependent on fishing, which makes the economy
vulnerable to price swings. The sector accounts for about 95% of
exports and nearly half of GDP. In early 2008 the Faroese economy
began to slow as a result of smaller catches and historically high
oil prices that continue to trouble the economy. Though oil prices
have come down, reduced catches, especially of cod and haddock, have
continued to strain the Faroese economy. GDP grew 0.5% in 2008-09.
The slowdown in the Faroese economy followed a strong performance
since the mid-1990s with annual growth rates averaging close to 6%,
mostly a result of increased fish landings and salmon farming, and
high export prices. Unemployment reached its lowest level in the
first half of 2008, but increased to 3.9% in 2009 and is rising. The
Faroese Home Rule Government produced increasing budget surpluses
that helped to reduce the large public debt, most of it to Denmark.
However, total dependence on fishing and salmon farming make the
Faroese economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in world demand. In
addition, budget surpluses turned to deficits in 2008-09, and the
economy at both the country and local level is running large
deficits. Initial discoveries of oil in the Faroese area give hope
for eventual oil production, which may provide a foundation for a
more diversified economy and less dependence on Danish economic
assistance. Aided by an annual subsidy from Denmark amounting to
about 6% of Faroese GDP, the Faroese have a standard of living
almost equal to that of Denmark and Greenland.



GDP (purchasing power parity):


$1.642 billion (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 192


GDP (official exchange rate):


$2.45 billion (2008 est.)



GDP - real growth rate:


0.5% (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 186


GDP - per capita (PPP):


$34,000 (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 39


GDP - composition by sector:


agriculture: 16%

industry: 29%

services: 55% (2007 est.)



Labor force:


34,680 (November 2008)
country comparison to the world: 201


Labor force - by occupation:


agriculture: 10.2%

industry: 20.5%

services: 69.2% (2008)



Unemployment rate:


3.9% (2009)
country comparison to the world: 34
1.2% (2008)



Population below poverty line:


NA%



Household income or consumption by percentage share:


lowest 10%: NA%

highest 10%: NA%



Inflation rate (consumer prices):


-1.1% (2009)
country comparison to the world: 6
6.4% (2008)



Agriculture - products:


milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon, other fish



Industries:


fishing, fish processing, small ship repair and refurbishment,
handicrafts



Industrial production growth rate:


8% (2007 est.)
country comparison to the world: 27


Electricity - production:


275.8 million kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 171


Electricity - consumption:


264.4 million kWh (2008 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Electricity - exports:


0 kWh (2008)



Electricity - imports:


0 kWh (2008)



Oil - production:


0 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 175


Oil - consumption:


5,000 bbl/day (2009 est.)
country comparison to the world: 169


Oil - exports:


0 bbl/day (2008)
country comparison to the world: 195


Oil - imports:


4,922 bbl/day (2008)
country comparison to the world: 157


Oil - proved reserves:


0 bbl (1 January 2010 est.)
country comparison to the world: 180


Natural gas - production:


0 cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 196


Natural gas - consumption:


0 cu m (2008)
country comparison to the world: 185


Natural gas - exports: